This product speaks for itself. It is excellent in ensuring laundry cleanliness. It is a product that I will always use because it meets my laundry standards and value. If you want your clothing to smell nice, feel smooth and clean without affecting the texture, then I suggest you go for the this product.
I recently purchased a large box of Tide from a local warehouse store. My mother always used Tide growing up and I absolutely loved the scent, but it also did a great job cleaning the clothes. I was anxious to use the new detergent as I was hoping for the same results I grew up with but after doing several loads of laundry, I am highly disappointed. I agree with other reviewers that my clothes are not nearly as clean, and worst of all, the new Original scent smells exactly like the scent used in many brands of kitty litter. I'm not sure about you, but I do NOT want my clothes to smell like kitty litter. I am disappointed in Tide as a company considering how many TERRIBLE reviews there are on this site, that they have not listened to their loyal customers and brought back the ORIGINAL unconcentrated formula with the truly original scent. Once this box is finished, I will not be purchasing another unless I see the original Tide is back. I agree that I would much rather purchase a less expensive detergent that cleans and smells much better.
I was skeptical about going from a liquid laundry detergent to a powder. I read all the reviews at Consumer Reports and decided to give it a try. I purchased 4 boxes so I could get the free shipping. My whites are brighter, stains come out sooo much easier, colored or dark clothing doesn't fade. This is by far the best laundry detergent I have ever used. My only complaint is that when they shipped it, they didn't use enough packing material so some of the detergent boxes were dented and had tears in them where the detergent had spilled out.
I have used Tide since my son was old enough to crawl. You can't beat the cleaning power, unless you use WAY more than a cap full. So, with Tide, you use less, which makes the cost about the same as any other brand you have to use more of. Everything costs too much these days...but to have to go back to the store to buy more because the cheaper brand runs out? No thank you. Also, I've seen quite a few reviewers on this site complain about the Tide with Downy leaving colored spots on their clothes...I don't get it...I've been using Tide with Downy (Clean Breeze scent) for years...and I've never seen spots on my clothes. And yes, I've been using the stuff with the Acti-lift since it came out, and still...no spots on my clothes. Of course, I use a regular old washer, can't afford an HE one...and I never wash anything in cold water...don't know if that has something to do with it. Bottom line...Tide is absolutely the best at getting clothes clean without having to use more than a cap full. And the addition of my favorite sent of Downy is just icing on the cake! I still use a little Extra Downy in the rinse, though. Makes my clothes SOOOO soft and the wonderful smell lasts quite a while in the closet or in the drawer.
i just received the product a while ago, the only problem is when i received the package, the box is open... so some stuff with the tide product been damaged like the bounce box is open with liquid of detergent... they should wrap the dry product and seperate it with the liquids... i dont wanna waste my time return it, i dont like the fedex carrier... you should delivery it by ups nex time...
I have very sensitive skin and tried using other products which are more heavily perfumed and, well, it wasn't working out for me (those with sensitive skin will know what I mean!). This product is great as it doesn't have so many chemicals so is much better for me. I just wish it came in bigger boxes so would be a bit cheaper by comparison!
This works amazing especially on whites. I washed a very dirty white load and it came out sparkling clean almost like new. The smell is great too. Would def recommend!
Was very skeptical before buying this product but after reading all of the good reviews for it I figured I would finally give it a try and i must say that I'm extremely happy I did. It says that you can use two if you think you need to but you really only need one and the smell is incredible which you can't tell by just smelling the actual pod lol. I wanted to see what my clothes would smell like if i didn't add anything else to the wash, ( fabric softner, etc...), and to my surprise they smelled better and was just as soft as if I had used fabric softner. Will definitely continue to purchase this product from now on.
Tide is the best laundry detergent I've ever used and I've used them all! I agree with the consumer who says she was buying a cheaper detergent, using double the amount but still not getting clean clothes. Yes, its true that TIDE is more expensive than all the other brands but this is because its a good, efficient detergent that gets your clothes clean without using large amounts. So there! You get what you pay for people!!! Want clean clothes? Buy the TIDE and you won't have to worry or wonder if your clothes will come out clean because THEY WILL!!! Something else you'll notice after using Tide is how much 'brighter' your colors look and how fresh and clean everything smells.
I have used Tide products almost exclusively over the years,with satisfactory results. I had always considered Tide products better than the rest, but have been disappointed by all laundry detergents in particular. They either did not clean my clothes, as well as I felt they should, or stripped the color out of my clothes. When I saw Tide Cold Water in the stores,I was excited to try it, as I have always used cold water to clean all of my colored clothes. The fact that I am taking time to write about it is a HUGE endorsement! My clothes look and smell great! This is no small feat, as our family owns a restaurant, and my husbands clothes are subjected to grease, and a mix of smells, that tend to cling to clothes, even after multiple washes. Well, no more! I also, take care of my elderly mother, and launder her clothes due frequently, due to "accidents". In a household like mine, it seems as though my washer is constantly running. This brings me to my area of disappointment. It does not come in a larger family, or commercial size. As much as I wash clothes, it makes an already costly process that much more of a cash drain!
You can't beat this product for good quality cleaning. I love the spell, and though it is a little pricey, it's worth it.
I used to wash my dark colored cloths with Woolite Detergent for many years. That was so many years that I was sad to say goodbye to many of my favorite tops and pants. Sometime, I did not dare to wear a certain piece of my cute blouse ecause I was afraid that its color would be faded. Then one day,I tested a sample of this Tide detergent on a yellow washcloth. I was surprised to see the washcloth color turned new in front of my eyes. Then, I pulled all my courage to apply it onto my favorite pieces of cloths. Since that discovery, I threw away all the expensive Woolite for dark clothes bottles. I just found out a month ago that this type of detergent begins to disappear from the store. I was freaking out. So, I bought up almost of all of them that were available in my Walmart and some from Target. All adds up to about 30 bottles of this Tide Total Care. I hope, they'll last me for many years. I wouldn't spend hundreds of dollars on it if it doesn't work well.
Picked up a large pkg of new pods. Looked easy to use. Still had liquid tide left and read label about team gear offer. Went to tide website and saw reviews of the new pods so read them. Seemed like many folks were having problems with them. One lady said to dissolve first, then use. Figure I'd try that before running into non-dissolving and staining problems. Put pod in cup of water prior to needing. Hours later, portion of the pod still not dissolved. First load, added to drum as instructed. Towels smelled as if not washed, had to re-wash. Next load, added to detergent cup ( have top-loading machine). Of course, I removed the un dissolved portion of the pod first. Not worth it. Hard enough for Mom's taking care of families to have to "manage" the detergent before using. Didn't notice any great smell and they were expensive. From reading the reviews, can't see tide taking any responsibility for the problems. Oh yeah, seen responses where tide tells how to remove the stains the pods caused....what's wrong with this picture? Aren't we doing laundry to get clothes clean and remove stains....not get more stains from the detergent we use? I've used tide for as long as I can remember...if they accepted responsibility for the problems with pods, I'd continue to use their products. But with the lack of responsibility I see for problems caused, hard-to-use pods, tide... You are losing a former lifetime customer.
I started using Tide Pods when I went to college because I loved the idea of not having to carry a heavy bottle of detergent around with me and could instead just grab a pod and go. So far it has been the best decision I ever made. I just throw it in with my laundry and never have to worry about measuring or the mess of liquid. They leave my clothes smelling fresh and looking clean. I also know exactly how many loads I have left to the pack instead of trying to get a rough idea of when I need to go shopping for laundry detergent again- which as a college student can be a hassle to do, now I just count how many pods I have left and shop when I'm down to about 3 or 4. I have recommended these to everyone I know and so far the ones who have tried it love it also, especially my friends from school. If you've never tried them please please please do so they will save you a lot of time and hassle and you WON'T regret it at all. Also if you want to send me a free sample for those I recommend it to that would be GREAT! Thanks!
I LOVE tide pods. I hadn't received a free sample but while shopping, I noticed them in the Laundry isle and thought I'd give it a shot. In the past, I always overused my detergent and didn't really get my money's worth in the long run. I tried the tide pods and after the first load of laundry finished, I was hooked. My clothes smell amazing, feel clean, and look fantastic. Not to mention I didn't overuse the amount needed and the work in any water temperature so if I want to wash in cold water to save energy, I can. These. are. worth. every. penny.
One of my friends recommended me to buy this one, yep, I will recommend it to my other friends!
I love Tide! I have not had a problem with the Pods...yet! But if you look at the recent reviews, you'll see that many have had a problem with staining and plastic. Last year when the reviews started, there were no complaints...except a rare one. Perhaps they're having quality issues. I hope no customers are lost and they can fix this soon. I have an LG HE washer and find the Pods so much easier than measuring and pouring into the small hole for the detergent. That's why I gave 3 reviews. We need UNSCENTED. Also, not sure why you need to buy Tide Boost to help your Tide. Why don't you just 'perfect' the Tide? I never buy the additional product, Tide Boost...don't know why we need that.
This was the only brand of laundry detergent I would buy for almost twenty years. When I first tried this variation with the baking soda and lilac scent,I was hooked! The scent is so amazing! It's fresh, clean, and light. It gets my clothes to a satisfying clean, but I'll admit doesn't get out tough stains on its own. I would usually have to...
After trying other less expensive brands, I came right back to Tide! It takes less detergent and does a much better job than the lower cost detergents. Tide is a high quality detergent that you can count on!
I had been bouncing around between different detergents AND liquid fabric softeners, trying to find something that didn't fade our clothes, or sour them after 2 hours in the washing machine in case I left a load to go to the store or something. I was wasting my money. I started with cheaper brands and worked my way to Tide Coldwater, sans the liquid fabric softener, I vouched for dryer sheets this time, because we are trying to save a little on our electric bill. I must say, I have experienced a most pleasant surprise in my expectations from this detergent. I was ready to give up and say they were all alike and go back to the cheapest, but Tide has cleaned our clothes wonderfully, and I have used ONLY cold water, for my whites, colors, darks, and bed linens, just to test the product at it's word. I am VERY satisfied, and when I visit the store today, I will definitely be investing in another bottle, as well as my dryer sheets. Thank you Tide Coldwater.
I recently decided to try out the tide pods, even though they are much more expensive then my regular detergent. My very first wash stained ALL of my white tank tops, and left stains on several other shirts. I carefully went through everything to make sure I didn't accidentally leave something in a pocket.. After several washes with no soap, the stains came out a little bit, but not completely. I decided to give it another whirl, this time without putting any lights in. After taking my clothes out of my dryer and folding them, I realized the pod had got stuck on two pairs of my name brand sweats, completely ruining them. I threw my whole 72 pack container away and WILL NEVER BUY THESE AGAIN. The damage of just a few loads cost me over $200. not acceptable.
Let me re-cap quickly. Tide pods destroyed 3 different sets of costly (thanks for the dis-coloring), basketball uniforms (thanks for the blue stains all over them) that I can't replace, countless number of socks, t-shirts, and miscellaneous clothes. I feel like such a fool for trusting Tide and even more of a fool for not realizing how much it was destroying. I will never ever buy a Tide or P&G product again. These items don't dissolve and please, Tide, don't respond with your canned messages on tips that I should wash in warmer water when it's cold - I live in Southern California for gosh sakes and you indicate on your package that it WILL DISSOLVE. Not true.
I never really use Tide because I had a bad experience in the past, but the store was out of All Free and Clear ( the brand I prefer). I decided to give it a try again, thinking maybe I was being paranoid. My BRAND NEW and EXPENSIVE ITALIAN SHEETS were RUINED by Tide Coldwater. They were 100% egyptian cotton and a light to medium purple color. I removed them from the washer yesterday to discover random light pink spots and discoloration. I do not own bleach and I have never even used it before. I had washed the sheet 3 times prior with All detergent and they came out beautiful and soft. I really cant believe this just happened to me. I had spent the entire summer saving up my money to buy high quality bed linen. I work so hard to keep them in great condition and this detergent ruined them. I'm very distraught and dont even want to look at my sheets because I get so upset. Do your self a favor and do not buy Tide, Tide Coldwater, or any Tide product. While it may or may not happen to you, it is really not worth taking the chance. Just believe me.
I have been using these pods for about two weeks and i love them. I do a lot of laundry (3 kids, 2 are toddlers) and i have had no problems with these. They dissolve in all temperatures, get the clothes clean and smell great. I will be using them permanently, because i know precisely how many loads i get for my money. You can't say that about liquid detergent.
I never tried the pods or the scent. I love both. The smell is AMAZING. I love I don't have to measure detergent. It dissolves completely in all temperatures. Extremely convenient. Free delivery to my door step makes it a simple choice.
The Tide pods works great cleaning your laundry. Just use one pod per load and clothes come out clean and smelling wonderful. The container is better than lifting and messing around with the plastic bottles.
I always used generic detergent in my old washer...had to buy a new one and use the HE, so I thought I'd splurge & try Tide. I feel like my clothes are cleaner, brighter & smell better. It's probably a combination of the new washer and Tide detergent, but I'm not going to use any other detergent. I am very happy with this product.
leaves laundry clean and smells great. i have a GE HE Harmony top loader and i use either regular or he products...when using regular detergents i only use about 3/4 the amount and works just fine. i have used full doses of regular detergent in my GE washer and have no suds problems. this Tide Febreze does come in HE but i purchased the regular by mistake ..but not a problem for me. my GE washer is 6 years old now without any problems. this happens to be one of my favorite detergents.
After receiving this product have been using it ever since, it's that good. I use only three cups for my laundry with the crystals and it last still my next wash. This is a fabulous item and will continue to use because it leaves no film, greasy spots only a fresh smell. Tide is the best with outer and under garments stain and odor removals. A True gem!
This is the only clothes soap product I have found that doesn't cause an allergic skin reaction when I wash my clothes in it. It is difficult to find in stores and online was the only option, Walmart the least expensive and available in stock,
So glad you can get this online. The "original" tide is getting harder and harder to find. Used to purchase at dollar stores but they no longer carry, most stores are carrying pods with smell or frebreze tides, love the smells but cannot use because they make me itch from toe to head. This original scent works for my sensitive skin.
The Downy leaves my clothes smelling SO good! Tide alone is a great detergent. I always buy Tide with Downy now!
I have tried tons of things to get the smell of bait out of my husband's fishing clothes. Nothing really worked. Even vinegar which was recommended by friends. The Sport Active Tide works!! His clothes actually come out smelling nice! The scent is very strong so you don't need as much. If you don't like scent on your clothes you won't like it. Otherwise, it rocks!
I have used tide for over 30 years. Even when my mother in law told me i was wasting her sons money buying name brand laundry soap. My clothes looked better much longer, smelled great, and I got to make my mother in law upset. All bonuses!!
Thought these were just so great when they first came out. Thought that I had it made with laundry since all I had to do was throw in one of these little guys. I tried them all (scent wise) and the Ocean Mist seems to work the best. I loved how these smelled in the package, but your clothes smell nothing like them after being washed. I don't know what is up with this kind, but you can definitely NOT use just one for a load of laundry. I have used up to 5 before for a large load and still can not smell it on the clothes. The worst part is that after only being the closet for a couple of days the clothes have that weird musty smell to them. I absolutely hate these things now. I would rather go through 4 bottles of the cheaper brand of detergent than one of these.
What can I say other than; "Oh Happy Day" I am a happy camper when a product truly works and I love my pods. At first I thought are they kidding, but they work I can tell by my cloths that it works. I just pop in my pod close the door and walk away. I am so use to over using products that don't do what I feel they should, so I use more. Not with the pods. When I was my grandsons overhauls from his shop classes at the college I use two due to the oily smell, but I only wash them once a week. Just try them for yourself and you will see. I will continue to use them no more old style liquids or powders for me. I did a lot of research on price and count and Walmart can't be beat. You can get a lower pod count for cheaper at other stores, but not the 72 count. (I still use my shout when needed, and my crystals for that extra fragrance boost on my towels)
Tide is my favorite laundry detergent. It usually is out of my price range, but Walmart has it at a really good price, so I have been buying it on line. But I have to tell you this is one of the best ever odor fighting detergents I have ever used. My laundry has never smelled better.
This is a great bargain, but I really like the free breeze better
Also since I don't own a car I buy all those bulky groceries online. After a LOT of research I found that walmart.com offers the absolutely lowest price. So don't hesitate, buy it here :D
I have a home bound dad who uses this product and loves it. For ease, I ordered a bunch of items from Walmart very close to Christmas. Delivery was suppose to be on 12/26, which would be fine. Looking at this as an early present, my shipment arrived on Sat. Only 2 days after I placed the order. Needless to say, my Dad was thrilled and so was I. Walmart went beyond expectations and I will return there often due to the excellent service.Thank you, Walmart and all staff!
A.great bargin I bought four and it last me along time I no longer have to buy at my supermarket for a price of. $18.99 for one Wallmart delivers at my door Thank you Walmart
We purchased one bag of Tide Pods to give them a try & are very happy we did. Our clothes smell great after washing using Pods!
Normally, I buy Arm & Hammer laundry detergent. However, I was doing laundry at a friend's place and they suggested I use their pods so I wouldn't have to grad a huge bottle of detergent out of the car. I love them!!! Like my friend, I wash everything on cold, and don't normally separate the colors as long as delicates or new clothes aren't involved. I experienced no problem with the pods dissolving in the cold water, nor stains of any kind even when I washed a very heavy winter sleeping bag. Everything came out clean and smelling wonderfully. I'm now using the pods myself, and love that I can put a couple of pods in my hamper since I have to carry it down the stairs and down the block. The product is wonderful, though I do agree that either a lighter scent, or an unscented option be made available. Over all, I love this product, and have permanently switched! Thank you Tide!
I have always bought cheap laundry soap (purex)..But i just bought these just to try because i tend to waste laundry soap and these are easy to throw in the washer and be done ..and i am so glad i did these are so amazing because my clothes smell great and feel better after i wash them i will never buy anything else besides tide pods ...worth the extra little bit of money for sure because you spend so much for clothes love love love!
I've been using free and clear detergents for a while now because I have sensitive skin. I didn't think I could use scented detergents. However, I really loved the smell of Tide with Febreze and found it in HE. I bought it on sale and thought I'd give it a try. It gave my clothes a finished "new" look, bright, without stains. And it smells great. It did not irritate my sensitive skin in any way, which is very really something because everything seems to. I have even used it on my babies clothes and it got out the tough stains from formula, etc. and has not bothered her skin. I really am glad I tried this stuff and am going to keep on using it.
I purchased a large bottle of Tide HE Febreze Sport at a wholesale store. I did my laundry as usual and kept noticing a faint cat urine smell through out the week and couldn't figure out where it was coming from. I found it quite odd, considering I have no pets. I did my laundry again last weekend and noticed how awful my clothes smelled when I took them out of the dryer! The cat urine smell was very strong and was from my clothes. Gross! I did an online search to find out what would make my dryer/clothes smell like a cat urine. I found other reviews stating the Tide Febreze Sport detergent was causing the same for them. The smell is fine for cotton, but seems to hold for other kinds of fabrics. Thankfully, the store let me exchange the large bottle I purchased with a different scent. I would not recommend this scent of detergent, but will continue to purchase Tide products.
I have always used Tide and love the way it cleans my laundry!
Does the great job Tide always does, wonderful scent.
These days I do not use any hot water to wash my clothing. I am hooked on Tide For Cold Water!
Love the simplicity of the pods! It's space saving, already measured (which makes it easier for "others" to do the laundry~). It's a little pricey, but the convenience outweighs the cost! Only draw back is: Wish that coupons were redeemable for online purchase.
I bought this online because of the package deal but when I recieved my items the laundry detergent was busted on the bottom and made a huge mess.
I wanted my whites white and bright colors to stay bright.I din't want to search for an hour at the store so I just looked online and thought I would try it out.It works awsome-every bit as expected.
I have always used bleach for our whites and felt there was nothing else that could compare. Although, the whites would never get truly white like they were when new. When I received the sample of Tide Boost Vivid White + Bright Pacs in the mail I tried it on a load of whites that included some white wash cloths that had old stains and some older socks that were old and dingy...........amazingly, they came out like new! I am still so impressed with the performance! I have purchased this product since then and will be giving my bleach to a family member who can't part with the old standby! I just hope that this product doesn't get discontinued like many good ones do!
Awesome Product..........is there another brand? Even in cutting costs I still buy Tide.......because I love the fresh clean scent of my clothes, and you don't have to use so much to get the cleanliness you want for your clothes. ........
I wear a lot of flannel and chamois in the fall and winter and this keeps all my shirts looking great by getting rid of all the pilling/fuzz on them. It keeps my denim looking great too without that freakish glow. It cleans excellently, although not as powerfully as Tide HE plus Bleach, so I use that on whites. This is Tide's most expensive detergent @ 40 loads per 100 oz, but it cleans like Tide, gets rid of odors like Tide plus Febreze, softens like Tide plus Downy, and keeps my darks/ brights looking new all in ONE bottle.
Since I am allergic to various scents/odors, this is the perfect alternative to the ORIGINAL Bleach Tide. I cannot stand the original scent unless I open doors and windows in my house. This does NOT have a strong, obnoxious scent during laundry or long after the clothes are put away. My daughter uses the original scent and I can't even stand to be real close to my grandson when he's wearing something washed in original tide. The odor lingers forever, in my opinion. Buy the Clean Breeze Scent if you are sensitive.
great item for a kid away from home and beats having to measure. one little handy compact that gets the clothes clean and so convenient.
used tide pods for white and brights on a load of whites I did not want to use bleach on when I removed from washer I discovered blue stains all over many items in wash very disappointed to lose good clothes
love the smell . works great.
It may cost a lot more then the cheeper stuff but you get what you pay for. It gets aLL THE DIRT AND STAINS OUT THE FIRST TIME YOU WASH IT. Its well worth what you pay for it becuase yuou dont have to buy all those exspencive additives toget the stains out.. Go try it.
I bought the 77 count of Tide Pods. I've only gotten about half way through the container, and many of the pods have leaked, and there's a HUGE clump of pods stuck together. I can't get them apart without breaking them and further gumming up the contents of the container. I have to dig in the container to find pods that are still intact, and it's a mess. I wanted to use them all up, as they were expensive. I don't plan to buy pods again, and I won't recommend them to anyone. We've wasted a lot of money, and we weren't able to wash our clothing properly with Tide Pods. So disappointed.
I love the new tide pods in the spring meadow scent! It's nice that the stain remover, detergent, and brightener are all in these little pods. I was worried at first because the water didn't get as soapy as when you use regular liquid tide, but the clothes came out clean and smelling great! I recommend these to everyone. Just throw it in, put the clothes in the washer and you're done!
I do not usually provide feedback on products I buy, however; Finally!! No more pouring or scooping when washing my clothes. The Tide Pods are wonderful and my clothes still smell fresh and clean.
You definitely get your money's worth out of these. When you use liquid, it just never lasts as long as it says when they tell you 72 loads. With this, you GET the 72 loads, and it works great...smells great...I'm hooked to them now.. Mom of three... :)
For the price, a great value and my clothes smell wonderful!
I'm so happy now that I've kissed the concentrated liquids goodbye. This works just as well as the liquid (actually I think it's better) and is far more economical. No detergent clumps, laundry gets super clean, and clothes smell great.
I have three children and Tide is the only detergent that gets our clothes clean. I saw this in the laundry isle and for only $10 I thought I'd give it a try. I am really pleased with the way this stuff works, it even removed and lightened some old stains. My clothes were brighter and it smells amazing!
I have no problem with the product itself, in fact I love it, it cleans my clothes beautifully and leaves them so much brighter. I am 70 years old and have to carry my clothes down two flights of stairs to the laundry room so the pods are a major help. My only problem is the fragrance Mystic Forest it is way too strong. I purchased the fragrance Spring Meadow and it is much better, at least for my taste.
I was really excited to try this product out, so I bought a big bucket at a wholesale store. Normally I would try a product before buying a 90 piece package, but I've never had a bad experience with tide...until now :( The laundry NEVER comes out smelling fresh, even with the use of multiple "pods" and many dryer sheets. There is nothing worse than grabbing a shirt in a hurry only to realize that it smells musty! I have had to rewash more loads than not, and each time I've used 2-3 pods on the rewash. My husband and I are very disappointed! I am SO glad that they've finally been used up so I can go get detergent that works!
I loved the concept of throwing one little pod in and getting clean, fresh smelling laundry. I knew it sounded too good to be true! I just bought a bag of the ocean mist pods last week and have used them in my new Kenmore Elite front loader and they don't dissolve all the way and end up sticking to clothing! This has happened with a white load and two colored loads - so different temp settings. The first time I chalked it up to user-error and figured I didn't put it deep enough in the drum or something. The second and now third time I realize it's a definite flaw in the product. Will never use them again!
I love these! Yes, they are a bit more expensive than buying the liquid form, but they are worth every penny. I think I overuse the liquid, usually not even using the cup when I pour it into my washer. So these are perfect. I guarantee I'm saving money by using 1 of these per load. I read a review that said she had a problem with blue staining, I have never had a problem with that. My clothes come out great, with no problems. The smells are great, my favorite being the Ocean Mist. They are very convenient and I love the way they clean my clothes. Extremely happy and I would definitely recommend buying these.
I've used Tide with Febreeze ever since it first came out. I won't buy detergent unless I can get the Tide with Febreeze. I've found that a little goes a long way. I've noticed others saying that it smells too strong, and thought immediately that perhaps they were using too much. My husbands job requires he climb into machines, which gets his clothing very oily. He also has to clean oil up on a regular basis, this has required he crawl through oil. And he sometimes get oil all over him from broken lines. Tide with Febreeze always gets it all out and does a fabulous job getting that oil smell out also. We are also raising two of our grandsons, so I am always dealing with anything from food and grass to milk and paint in their clothing. I love Tide with Febreeze and would not want to use anything else.
Tide Original is the best it cleans my clothes and makes them smell nice and fresh....i've tried other brands and found myself unsatisfied and always came back to tide because i knew that it would do the job!!! From now on tide is all i will be buying because i know i will be happy with my clothes looking nice and clean and smelling fresh!!! keep this item around cause its the best.....
I have used this product when it was just labeled tide boost power than they redid the container and oxi appeared . I love it and it does work... I used it with tide he and my clothes are cleaner, brighter and smell wonderful... Thank tide another great product..
Tide is the "Gold Standard" among washing detergent.
Same price as in the store, and I paid no shipping, can't beat NOT standing in line or looking for a parking space.
Love the scent! It says 90 loads but I actually marked my usage and discovered an extra 15 loads. It is definitely an ultra, you do not need to fill the cap. I only fill it to the first line of the cap and that is more than enough to wash one whole load. With the fabreze freshness, you don't even need a fabric softener. Look at it as a 2 in 1 (laundry soap plus fabric softener) it's perfect. Also, the extra security of tape on cap and additional bagging for shipping was just awesome. My package arrived in great condition without damage and spills. I plan to purchase additional quantity to use as a gift to my sister. Thank you walmart.com for the fine services being provided.
Tide is excellent as always and you really can't beat this price!
This detergent is formulated to work with Cold water which saved energy by not using Hot water. It is priced same as other detergent. If you have HE washer, you must use this product.
I have used Tide for years and I am 72 years old, it is the best detergent out there, I am anxious to try this new Tide with bleach. I understand it gets out blood as well as other bothersome stains. Boy, do I wish this was out when I was younger and my children were little. I can imagine the grass stains, etc. would have been no problem. Thanks guys at Walmart and God Bless!
In my opinion, the Spring Meadow scent is the best out of the three available Tide Pods. I like Tide Pods for the convenience (no measuring cups), and load for load, they are comparable in price to the tide liquid detergent. I've been using the pods for the past four months, and the product has kept my clothes just as clean as the regular liquid Tide detergent.
I love the Tide Pods. It does a wonderful job in cleaning the clothes and I was surprised that it got out some stains that the regular Tide did not.
I love washing with tide. The only thing i didnt like is the packaging. The detergent spilled all over my other products.
The Pods do a great job of getting clothes clean, at least dark clothes. Unfortunately, they ruined three of my white work shirts. They stained them purple. I tried washing the shirts again with liquid Tide and bleach, but the stains did not come out. The pods did not stain my white sheets and towels, just white cotton clothing.
It cleans like any tide product. Great It works in all temperatures. I save money by washing with cold water. Just drop it in the wash. No measuring. Easy as pie.
I have been using tide for over 40 years and would not even try anything else. My husband has come in with clothes, that at first glance, most people would have tossed in trash. BUT tide has cleaned spotlessly almost every time. Grease, oils and most any other grime you can imagine from working on large trucks. And NASCAR used the powder type in the cleanup at the Daytona firey wreck, to clean all the chemicals dropped on the track from the jet dryer and car that caught fire. I have a septic system and have never had a build up using hot or cold water.
We've been using Tide Powder for years and my wife prefers the powder over the liquid. We like how it cleans and like the scent. What else can I say? If it ain't broke, don't try to fix it!
I bought the Coldwater Purex & it stained 1 of my polo shirts & a tank top,So i decided to try Tide Pods & it removed the stain on my polo shirt but not the stain on my tank top,over all i think this product is really good.
Just as good a regular Tide except nothing to be allergic to. This is all I will use now. After I bought for my mother she won't use anything else.
Really restores brightness to colors. I just don't like how you have to use more of Total Care than the other Tide and 100 oz of Total Care is only enough for 40 loads as opposed to 60 loads with reg tide, but yeah, quality is amazing. Pairs fantastically with Downy Infusions Orchid Allure fabric softener, Downy Unstoppables Fresh scent laundry scent booster.
Tide is a great product. I get more loads from tide than any other brands. A small investment to protect your clothes. And to get longer lasting. hold new colors to my clothes. And does not cause skin to scratch like cheaper products. I will never switch or try another brand other than Tide.
I want a detergent that is safe in the laundry, that does not irritate the skin. I have always used Tide Free Liquid. But, recently, I tried Planet brand detergent, "gentle on sensitive skin". It is harsh on my skin, and too strong for our household needs. Tide Free is very much better, safe and effective. Thank you.
Never buy anything else. Excellent.
Great for stains and odors, nothing better!! Recommend spring scent though I like it better
I have been using Tide for years, but this is the first time I have tried the pods. I normally don't use the amount of detergent that is recommended, because a smaller amount works well. That is why I was hesitant to try the pods. I just assumed it wouldn't be as cost effective for me. I was happy when I read the box that 2 pods are to be used for a full load. I typically use full loads, so I followed my normal protocol of using less than the recommended amount and used only 1 pod. It cleaned my clothes just as well as the Tide liquid that I have always used. Plus, it's fun to pick up the little, squishy pod!! My mom had used the Downy Unstoppables before, and I found the scent offensive. It was just so strong that I couldn't stand the smell of the laundry. I decided to try it and use a little less than the lowest line on the cap, and this was for a full load. It was the perfect amount for me. It was definitely an improvement over just detergent, and it wasn't nauseating. I have continued to use it with every load. My only complaint about this bundle, is that I prefer Downy dryer sheets. I will still buy my Downy sheets, but will keep the Bounce on hand in case I run out. I will also use it this summer to rub on my clothes and my skin when I sit outside to keep the bugs away.
Excellent product but arrived leaking. Had to return it to local store for exchange. This was ordered for home delivery.
My son uses this and he loves it. He will purchase this product again. He's on the lazy side. So these pods does everything for him and it saves him time.
This is the best laundry detergent that I've ever used! Definitely recommend this to anyone with a traditional, or HE washer! My family has used tide for years and its the best! It doesn't have obnoxious fumes or leftover suds, and it removes almost all of the stains! I have a Maytag Bravos HE washer and it works great! I think that if you buy this you should also buy, stain boost, and/or downy!
I have always had better results with Tide products starting with the powder, then the liquid when it was first introduced. Since I have had excellent results with the similar new dishwasher pacs that are now available, I decided to give Tide Pods a try. Very glad I did. They work as advertised with much less mess. I have not experienced problems with the Pods dissolving or spotting clothes that a few of the reviewers have mentioned. The Pods work as advertised for me when stored properly and thrown into the bottom of the drum before the clothes. I have always had a tendency to overuse detergents which is one reason that I wanted to try the Pods. One Pod seems to be perfect in my front-loading HE washer. I started with Ocean Mist which seems to have the least fragrance (I prefer "free" detergents). Hard to detect any scent in the clothes at all, but this might be because we always use the extra rinse feature of our washer. End result: I think Tide Pods clean better than Tide liquid. A perfect example is my work/fishing hat - talk about a greasy, sweaty and dirty mess at the end of a week of fishing. In the past I have always had to pre-treat it. Well I forgot, and threw it in with all the other fishing clothes and towels that we use on the boat. Not only was it clean, but some old stains that had not come out with previous washings were gone. I am really pleased. If nothing else, I no longer have to clean up liquid detergent that always seems to drip on the floor.
I have used Tide for many years,and always felt it was the best,but I bought the Tide Pods,and they RUINED three of my fave blouses,and my husbands shirt.Will not be buying Tide Pods again!!!!
TIDE DETERGENT ITSELF IS WONDERFUL! WALMARTS SHIPPING WAS TERRIBLE, IT WASNT PADDED AND BY THE TIME IT ARRIVED A BOX OF DETERGENT WAS CRUSHED AND LEAKING OUT ALL OVER MY PORCH, FOYER AND CARPETING...... THE WHOLE WAY TO LAUNDRY ROOM! NEVER AGAIN WILL I ORDER ANYTHING FROM WALMART! THEY NEED TO TAKE THE TIME TO PACKAGE CORRECTLY OVER RUSHING IT TO THE CONSUMER AS FAST AS POSSIBLE! QUALITY! QUALITY! SHOULD BE TOP PRIORITY
I tried my sample yesterday and it seemed to work well and was excited to buy them, but after reading these reviews, I'm too afraid of ruining my clothes. I think I'll just wait and see what is done to fix the problems before I spend my hard-earned money on a product that has the potential to ruin clothing. Seemed like a great idea..the bugs need to be worked out.
I bought these pods because I had a coupon and with the subscribe and save discount it ended up only costing me about $10 for an 80 count pack. I have been using them for about three months. Pros: Easy to use Nice scent No fighting to get the last dregs of liquid detergent out of the bottle No need to buy separate softener Cons: I'm not sure HOW clean my stuff is getting. I always think these things work great and when I first pull my laundry from the dryer it always smells good and feels soft. I feel like these pods are really great and convenient but don't really take out the harder stains (sweat, chocolate, coffee). I swear my gym clothes haven't really smelled clean since I started using these pods. The pods are great for things that don't have stains but I am not convinced on their stain removing power. If you have children, these may not be the best item. If you have to remove a lot of stains, this is probably not a product for you. I love these but I think they could really use a little stain removal boost. Update 4/1/14: I had my first mishap with the Pods. I threw the pod into the laundry as I normally do (Pod goes in then you put the clothes in, this is important enough that it is in the instructions) and everything seemed fine. Then I was hanging up my freshly dried laundry and noticed that some of my clothes had these weird spots on them, like melted plastic. Then I found a pair of pants that had one big square pod shaped piece of plastic melted onto it. I went through everything that was in the load of laundry and found pieces of melted plastic on multiple items of clothing. Some of them are so small you wouldn't notice it but others have bigger more noticeable patches. It seems the pod didn't dissolve properly and stuck to my clothes. Once it went through the dryer it became a dried on plastic mess. I hoped washing them again would fix the problem (the plastic is supposed to be dissolvable right?) but nope! Either way, I'm calling Tide today to file a complaint. I'm taking my review down from 4 stars to 1 star. You ruin my clothes, you automatically get downgraded to the least stars possible.
I saw these things everywhere and was pretty skeptical about how well a little packet would work, esspecially since i have a toddler and he's really messy. Ifound a coupon in the sunday paper and decided I'd try them just to see. They blew me away. It works amazingly. I don't need to buy a big pack because it's just the two of us so the small 14ct pack can get us through the whole month. I only spend around 5 dollars and my clothes are clean and smell great! I'm very satisfied with these, i wont be buying regular detergant again!
The price ok.
the pods need individual packaging. one busted in bag which covered the rest of pods with detergent. they all stuck together and if u pull the good ones left apart, they bust. had to use 5 pods for 1 load so i still get use out of it. what a waste. so mad. already to expensive to buy let alone waste half of it. dont think u thought this product through.
I use other pods products but Tide pods is excellent and very easy to use. The clothing is clean clean and smelling very nice.
I love Tide pods! My clothes smells good!!
I love my Tide...It cleans so well and my laundry comes out smelling so fresh and clean!
Gets the laundry clean and smells great
I love this Tide for cold water. I'm impressed with the nice fresh smell and the way it cleans especially in cold water. My daughter and I both really like this Tide, she is the one that commented on the fresh smell first. My grandson was playing on my granddaughters blanket that had been washed at least 3 days before and she said "hey, this blanket smells as good today as it did they day I washed it."
I love tide with bleach it gets my clothes clean and the scent smells so good.
works really good at getting the smell of sweat out i workout every day and this is the only laundry soap that has worked this good
Love this "Active Sport" version of Tide. I workout intensely everyday, and often end up with some really nasty smelling clothes. This is the only detergent I've found that completely removes or at least masks those odors. The rest of my family and others at the gym are probably thrilled that I found and use this stuff :-)
I have been using Tide Pods for over 2 years now. When I first tried the Tide Pods Spring Meadow Scent, I wasn't sure they were going to clean as well as my regular Tide and color-safe bleach. But, I was wrong!! Hundreds of loads later and I love these pods. I think they actually cleaned my clothes better. They are really easy to use ... just throw 1 (or 2, for really dirty clothes) into your HE washer drum (it's important to do this FIRST), add the clothes, shut the door, turn the machine on and you're done. I really liked not having to measure/pour liquid (or powder) detergent and color-safe bleach into the HE top drawer. I didn't have any problems with the pods dissolving in hot, warm or cold water or with big or small loads. I don't know that I would describe the scent as Spring Meadow, but I really like it. The scent is a little stronger (more fragrant) than the Tide w/Downey scent and the smell definitely lingers/last longer. The pods got all of my clothes clean (towels, light and dark-colored clothing). The pods worked equally well on small and large loads (was enough to clean large loads, but not too much for small loads). The pods even have a booster to help get stains out. My first impression on the cost was that the pods were too expensive, but the pods not only contain detergent, but also a stain booster. So, if I look at it on a PER LOAD basis, it really isn't anymore expensive than my detergent and color-safe bleach. I am sold on these pods!! In fact, I liked them so much that I buy the 77-pack tub (which BTW cost $17.97 for 72 at Wal-mart ... to give you an idea of what they are selling for at other places). I also like the OCEAN MIST scent, but I personally think the Spring Meadow smells the best out of the three. Also, the larger counts (57+ count) come in a flip-top plastic tub, not a resealable bag (like the 40 count and under). As far as the Bounce sheets, the scent smells REALLY strong out of the box, but is a nice subtle scent out of the dryer. And, this was my first time using the UNSTOPPABLES. I was pleasantly surprised. I wouldn't use them on all of my clothes, put they worked great when I washed shoes and smelly towels and uniforms. I used about a half a cap (or less). The scent definitely holds much longer than fabric sheets alone. The scent is ok. I don't love it, but I plan to try others to see if those scents are better. One word of caution on the UNSTOPPABLES, they look just like Dippin' Dots ice cream or some small candies. As with all cleaners, keep them well out of reach of small children at all times.
i like to buy in bulk. i dont drive so it saves on taxi and other traveling expenses. it is a great product i think anyway. the pods carry all the cleaning power in them and it leaves a fresh nor purfumey smell to the wash.
I started using Pods 4 months ago and love them. Being deployed and not having many choices had me feeling helpless, then my husband sent these pods. They clean just like the liquid Tide I use at home and the smell are great. I will continue to use this once I get home.
I'm a mother of six, so I've done ALOT of laundry, and keeping my family's clothes fresh and clean is very important to me, and in today's economy how we choose to spend our money has to be cost efficient..have been using original Tide almost 3 decades, and tried this new one just to see and am VERY pleased will DEFINITELY buy again!
I have found a wonderful laundry detergent with great results in cleaning my clothes and the scent is remarkable -- subtle, but nice. It makes my whole apartment smell so good. The price is just right and I will recommend to family and friends.
This is the best fabric softener. It has a nice fresh floral scent. I especially love the black bottle. It makes my clothing, towels and bedding so soft and fresh. I use downy and Tide products and my clothes last longer and never fade. I am a long time customer.
Before today I only used Wisk on my whites cause it was the only detergent that didn't leave dinged on whites. So today I bought Tide Vivid Bright White liquid (Bleach Alternative). First I did the liquid and it got the whites the same as Wisk, but then I washed again with Vivid Boost pac and WOW!, It was white as if I bought them new right out of the package! I never did use bleach while washing with both, you don't need bleach! I will buy this and only these for my whites!
When I first saw these I was very intrigued by them, and after reading a substantial amount of reviews, I decided to try them. I am glad that I did because these pods work very well on your clothes and leave them fresh, clean, bright and smelling good.I have noticed a difference in how my clothes looked, as they do look brighter and stains were removed, all the first time.There's no need to use more than 1 because it would be just a waste, unless your clothes are muddy, greasy or extremely dirty. Even with that, you could pop one in and do a soak first, then wash. We use to much detergent anyway, all you need is 1.5 ounces or 3 tablespoons or less and your done. The scent at first may be over powering but, after you wash and dry your clothes, the scent will be mild. I have the Spring Meadows pods and they smell great, like spring time flowers. Some users have complained about blue stains on their clothes and the packs not dissolving, I have not have that issue, as I washed light colors on warm, darks on cold and towels on warm and have not seen any staining, what so ever. Your suppose to put them in first and then load the washer, maybe there not doing that or their over loading the machine or its their washing machine ( I have an old Maytag from the 80's). I would soak my clothes first then wash them or dissolve it in a cup of water, then add it to the washer, to make sure they dissolve properly.. Some also complain about the pods not having a pungent smell .That should be the least of your concerns as your main concern should be about having clean laundry that gets out all the stains and do what it's supposed to do. I did notice a mild smell on large loads of clothes and a pungent smell on small loads but, what's most important, are that they clean great and they do. You will not be disappointed, if you use them right.
The bundles contain very nice laundry items & are cheaper than buying single products--but only if you use everything in the same proportion as the bundle. I do not. The Unstoppables are too heavy-handed for me to use regularly, but they can be nice for stuff you launder infrequently and that sits for longer than the rest of your laundry--guest towels, backup sheet sets, etc. for me, the scent is just to strong to be part of my regular laundry routine, so they would just pile up if I bought the bundles regularly. The pods and the sheets, on the other hand, are in pretty good proportion. While I don't use fabric softener with every load (I don't like it for towels or napkins, as I feel it reduces absorbency), I do like to tuck them into unused suitcases or out-of-season clothes, so they wouldn't pile up. If you do use them with every load,the numbers are pretty nicely matched to the detergent (70 loads of pods to 80 sheets). I feel decadent for it, but I have to admit I really love the laundry pods. Not only are they handy and effective, but they cut down on the mess (I prefer liquid detergent but I'm clumsy, so there are always drips). I suspect they might even end up being a better value, since the number of doses on the bottle are never calculated by a full lid, and you can't overpour a pod. All in all, excellent laundry supplies if you like fragrance, but the Unstoppables may be overkill if you like your clean laundry smell on the more subtle side.
I grew up loving Downy, ahhhh smells so wonderful, like sunshine on a clothesline full of freshness. When I saw that Tide came out with "add Downy" I was like omg to much awesomeness within two great laundry projects how cool is that right? I bought some tried it , loved it, can't say a bad word about it.Get clothes white and sot, smell fresh. I love the combo that P & G came up with.
I have 7 in my household, So laundry is a must everyday.. I was spending lots of money on the cheaper brands and using way too much to get the clothes clean and smelling fresh. I tried the pods a few months ago. Wanting to control the amount of detergent I was going through and the amount of money I was spending weekly for a 96 load jug.. I Love them.. As long as I do not overload the washer, I have only had one load of clothes that I found the pod in tact but the detergent was dispersed. I have gone through 2 of the 72 loads and 1 of the refill packs. Now I can even ensure a load is done correctly with my kids doing laundry. I always drop the pod in the stream of water coming in the washer. Maybe a hint for those of you having issues of them not dissolving. Thank you for developing these little wonders..
That's all I need to know.
Great product like always
It was nice ordering this size online because I did not have to luge it home.
I am in love with this product... I am so done with the pwder & liquid stuff !! :)
Love it! Does a great job in the new washers.
I think the product may be a little bit harsh on clothes but I'm very happy with how well it cleans. I have had a lot of animals and been covered with pet hairs that surprisingly enough cleaned right off as well as other soiled items like peanut butter etc. as long as it is inserted into the HE machine properly, it works really well. Being diabetic I have to be really concerned about cleanliness next to my skin and no residues. So far my skin has been fine and I have been grateful because I am disabled and cannot bathe every day. It is essential I have clean products and Tide seems to work well. Once in a while I will use less tied and add a little Woolite HE. This really seems to help get the close clean if I feel like there is some residue inside or extra soiled bulky items.
It cleans well and leaves clothes fresh and perfumed. Definitely a plus product. The only issue I had... was due to shipping. During transportation the bottle got damaged and detergent went out.
If you have sensitive skin I would recommend this, but it does not clean as well as regular Tide.
What I can I say that hasn't already been said about Tide? My mom used it so it's engrained in my DNA. I like the pure and clean the best. I won't use anything else.
I have been a Tide user for over 20 years. The detergent does excellent cleaning dirty clothes and small stains as long as you get the clothes in the wash right away. For tougher stains I had to pre-treat and soak the clothes prior to washing. With the combination the clothes come out smell fresh. The smell is pleasant and not overwhelming. If you are sensitive to stronger scents like me than the Downy should be good for you. If you are super sensitive then my assumption is will stick with the "free" variations of detergents. I have used the Frebreze variation. The scent from the Frebrez variation is much stronger and would select the Downy variation over it I have always believe Tide was worth the premium. A couple a years ago I did try other products to save money. There are other brands that do hold up well against tide. I have had good results with All. I will continue to buy both brands. It comes down to which one I can get on sale. I would recommend this Tide to friends and family
Tide Pods are a great way to keep colors bright and whites white. I thought that the pods would be difficult to dissolve in my washing machine, but they dissolved very easily. They did not leave a soap residue on clothes like powdered detergents sometimes do. I wish Tide would make an unscented or sensitive skin formula of these pods, because they would be perfect for my household. The scent of these Tide Pods is very strong, even people I know who like scented clothes think that the scent is too strong of these Tide Pods.
This detergent has caused the color to fade on my towels and sheets I bought a brand new grey hand towel and new bed sheets that were a dark tan washed in tide with vivid bleach and now they are pink.
I really thought these would be gone in two days that I would have to use two or three to get clothing clean and that is not the case, doesn't matter the load size just throw one in with the load and they come out clean and smelling great, I will never buy different laundry detergent again
I grew up with Tide and always buy Tide products for the laundry (tried others with disappointment) The Febreeze sport is my favorite scent for my work out clothes and even for my regular clothes and towels. Gets the dirt and grime out, always smells great. Love Tide!
I have been using Tide powder laundry detergents for almost 20 years since reading a leading consumer magazine which ranked powder detergents superior to liquids and had consistently ranked Tide powder detergent at the top of the heap. Unfortunately, Ultra Tide powder no longer outperforms competing powders. I suppose the detergents have been concentrated, but a lot of the water softeners (which make up the bulk of the powder and were already condensed) were removed. It's just not worth the price since I have to use more product, soak, or double-wash loads to get the same clean as Tide Original. Please bring back the Original tried, true and trusted Tide.
THE BEST laundry detergent Scent EVER! We all know that TIDE is the BEST Detergent for getting your clothes clean- More pricey but you get what you pay for. Stains Gone- Spills Out- and now Everything smells Wonderful TOO! Tide Febreze Sport Smells Incredibly Fresh & Sweet and STAYS Fresh for WEEKS! WOW! I must tell YOU how fabulous the scent of this laundry detergent REALLY is! My Orangle Bottle Miracle leaves the clothes, sheets, blankets, towels, everything it touches, FRESH for WEEKS after washing. I have NEVER scene anything like it!! I am a smoker yet because of Tide Febreze Sport you would NEVER know it. My clothes smell fabulous and fresh. I have noticed that even when I grab a shirt or a towel that was laundered weeks ago, it will STILL smell freshly laundered- You will want to Suck the smell up your nose fresh! YOUR Gonna LOVE this. TRY IT- PLease YOU WILL LOVE IT! I will NEVER use ANYTHING else EVER again! FOR REAL. #1 Cant live without product. Thanks Tide!
I love this new product.... Pods excellent for not having to carry liquid and I can just throw 1 or 2 pods in my laundry bag throw all into the washer. Excellent idea for small children teaching them to become independent to do their very own laundry. No hassle... now worries... no fuss
I use it all the time it's wonderful!!
i knew that the products was exceptioal but the speed in which my order was processed and shipped was also exceptiona.
There are limited choices of detergents in the supermarket (any of them). Now with He products on the market, it makes the selection is even more limited. On line ordering allows more choices, it's easy to do and the order arrived quickly. Thank you.`
These Tide Booster wash add-ins are helpful for those inbetween times (watered down detergent, not wanting to use bleach, when traveling, etc). Clothes do seem brighter, however I tend to overload the drum so that may be my problem right there. However, these are expensive and having read that some folks use two discs for one load of whites (which I fully believe, since some of my socks were just as dingy grey)... that just seems excessive since a small dash of bleach would work just as well. I may pick up another pack if it's on sale, but unfortunately this isn't a must-buy on my list.
They save money by not overuse of detergent.
Excellent product. Always consistent, no harsh chemicals.
I usually do not buy Tide detergent because it seems to be more pricey than others. However, I decided to go for convenience and try these Tide Pods. I am glad that I did. For a few dollars extra my clothes are cleaner and smell fantastic. I do my laundry at a laundromat, and I use the double loaders. I used one pod and my soiled sheets and towels were all clean. Threw a pod in with my clothes and they came out clean and smelling great as well. I didn't even have to use a fabric softener sheet because it is already built in to the pods. I really like this product and the Ocean Mist scent. It is pleasant without being too strong.
I've been using Tide Pods for nearly 3 months...and I am very impressed with their cleaning abilities. My clothes are brighter and more cleaner now than when I was using generic laundry detergent that cost only $3.69 (at a supermarket in Corona, Queens, NY). With Tide Pods, I don't have to worry about making a mess or using way too much detergent. If my clothes are really dirty, I use 2 Pods and if not, then just one. I wash my clothes every two weeks and 1 40 count package of Tide Pods lasted me nearly 5 months...much longer than if I were solely using liquid or powdered laundry detergent. I use two Pods when I wash because I have large laundry loads. I've been recommending this product to others. Great product, much better than Purex's Complete 3-in-1 Laundry Sheets!
I love these! First got them as an impulse buy from a drug store. When I went through them and wanted more I got a pack off Amazon (which by the way you get a bigger bag with ten more for a few extra dollars.) But even though only 18 come in this pack it's still a good price as well as a good buy.
I am absolutely in love with Tide Pods. I love that I can just grab and throw them in, then I put my clothes in. I have a top loader so I do not have the problems others have had, although I did use a TIDE POD with my Afghan and I am not sure that was a good idea but those blankets are so touchy anyways. I really love the PODS and only buy a small bottle of liquid for those tiny loads. I love that I know how many more loads I can do with the pods and get the exact amount of loads it says I can get. If you do the liquid the measuring is not always so accurate. For those who have problems with front loaders DO NOT BE DETERRED, simply put your pod in VERY FIRST and then put your clothes on top. It doesn't take long for the PODS to dissolve. GOOD LUCK and thanks for the awesome product!! If I could get a FREE product for such an awesome review please feel free.. haha THANKS!!!
I love these things!!!!! I have a front loader and I throw one in then the clothes( just like the instructions says) and they work great. I have never had any issues of discolor from the pods on my clothes. No more spilled detergent on my floor or machine. And less waste from big containers. I bought the larger container of pods and now I buy the refills. I have recommended these pods to everyone I know.
I typically love Tide products but this detergent leaves me very disappointed in the lack of quality that I come to expect from Tide. I recently removed a load of laundry from the dryer, only to find that the pod did not dissolve in the washer like it is expected to do and was instead melted to my pillow cases, which were also discolored! I always wash my clothing in warm water so I am at a loss as to how this could have happened. I was unsuccessful in my many attempts to remove the product... If anyone has any ideas as to how I might be able to get this off, I would very much appreciate your ideas because these pillowcases were not cheap. Very Disappointed!!
I was skeptical of the Pods because they were new and though I use Tide exclusively I still wondered if I could get the same clean that I get from Tide Vivid and the answer is yes! I will continue to use both the Pods and Vidid for different reasons. The Spring Meadow scent is so very lovely and sweet. I love it. The clean is consistent with the excellent nature of Tide. My grandmother used Tide and I use and love Tide and always will. Thanks for another terrific and tested product that we can count on.
Tide is my regular laundry detergent and we usually purchase the regular scent as well as Tide Free for use on our baby's laundry. I love the convenience of the Tide Pods that we purchased; however, as a busy mother of an infant, I find myself wishing that the Pods were available in the fragrance and dye free formulation that is available in the liquid detergent. We do LOTS of baby laundry in our house and the convenience of the Pods would be great in the fragrance/dye free formula...especially when laundry is being started while holding the baby!
I have used Tide detergent for years and love it. Tide removes stains better than any other detergent on the market. However, I bought Tide Pods expecting the same results I get with regular detergent and was very disappointed. The Tide pods did not dissolve completely ruining my husband's favorite shirt. I have had to wash the same loads over and over again to get the detergent out from the pods not dissolving correctly. I would stick with Tide's regular detergent.
I love the convenience of the pods but make sure you dissolve it in the water BEFORE you put your clothes into the washer. I have three sports bras with big colored blotches on them. Just my luck, first time I tried the pods. But the convenience is great and I love the brightener in them.
I love the pod! I always hated those big bottles, because they were heavy and hard to clean out on recycling day. I love the idea that the pods use far less plastic in their packaging -- and they do an amazing job on dirt, stains, and odors.
Toss and go is a great idea but I have found that a few loads have ended up having to be re-washed! The "wrapper" is not dissolving completely and I have found tiny pieces stuck to garments. My solution is to pre-dissolve in a measuring cup of boiling water but even then I find "snotty" threads of un-dissolved material. I do love the way Tide Pods clean though!
Very happy with this pack of 4 items. I just returned from a 2 week vacation to Canada. We didn't take much luggage, so these items were perfect. I had never used the Downy Wrinkle Release spray before, and was happily surprised at how good it worked! The 2 bottles of Downy were just enough for 3 people for 2 weeks. We only used one of the Tide pens, but admittedly we were all less "dining messy" than usual. We had no access to laundry facilities or irons, so it was great to have these with us. Will definitely buy this again when we travel.
I absolutely LOVE this laundry detergent! Having a little boy who seems to get messes and stains on everything, I have tried lots of different detergents and stain removers and this, by far, works the best. When I throw the clothes in the washer with a cap full of Tide, I know I don't have to worry about whether or not the stains...
Tide has long been a dependable favorite of mine - I know I can count on it to get laundry clean and fresh. I rarely find a stain that I cannot get out using Tide. This variety with the Downy in it is an added bonus. It has the wonderful fresh scent and softening power that I expect from Downy, plus Tide's great detergent features. I thought the scent was about right strength-wise, but it might be too much for sensitive users, so this is something to be aware of. It's a pleasant scent that leaves the laundry smelling clean and fresh, even over time. I like the idea that these two products are combined, it not only saves money but time too. I will use this variety again, so glad they've made it available!
I first tried these when I ran out of detergent and on a quick trip this was all the store had available for front-loading/HE. So, I thought I would give it a try. I didn't expect any different results than my regular Tide w/ Bleach HE, but when I put away the clothes, I noticed that they looked nicer. They really were cleaner and brighter - even some of our older and more dingy clothes came out looking much newer. So, I have stuck with the pods through over 100 loads. I have not had any issues with the pods not dissolving, like others have had. However, I am somewhat careful about placing the pod. I put it in AFTER I load the clothes, and right in the area where the water first pours in. Of course, I also have a hubby and kids helping - who knows where they put it! For us, the pods have worked really well, and we are very pleased. If there was only a way to incorporate fabric softener, it would be 5 stars. A scent-free version would be nice, although I don't terribly mind the scents available.
I went to the Tide PODs after using liquid laundry detergent, then ALL PODs. The liquid laudry detergent was painfully heavy in the size I purchased. And if it fell...there goes ten loads spilled... The ALL didn't seem to quite give me that sense of "clean" I like. I used to use Tide in my twenties and thought let me go back to it.... If I find I like it the cost is worth it. Well, I've only had a few not dissolve. Like one other reader my husband actually (sans reading the instructions) placed the PODS in the dispenser without any issues at all. I however still use the drum but may rethink it if I have encounter other non-dissollve issues. We have front load machines. I'm going to write the company and see if they have non-chlorine bleach in an all-in-one detergent. I don't just want brightener I want germ killer too...there is "ick" in certain clothing that needs a little bleach from time to time. I rated it a four for the wasted PODS
I don't use this for my "normal" laundry. I buy the cheap liquid stuff for that. I use powder original tide for my cloth diapers. After moving to where my water is extremely hard NOTHING was getting my diapers clean. I constantly had ammonia problems leaving a horrible rash on my baby after an hour of wear. I was stripping them every month. I...
I admit I'm kind of a snob when it comes to laundry detergent. Many of my friends scoff at me for spending the cash to buy Tide brand detergent, but it really does make my laundry experience a more pleasant one. First of all the detergent cleans my clothes great. It gets out stains and rinses out from my clothes quite well. I especially...
I was excited about the new Tide Pods when I first saw them on the market. That excitement quickly evaporated when I realized my light colored clothing were being stained by the Pods. I have had to throw several light colored pieces of clothing away due to the stains. I only use the Pods in my dark colored loads now. When they are gone I will not purchase them again. I'll stick to my liquid Tide I have used and trusted for 20+ years.
I have always used Tide and have been completely satisfied, so I was excited to buy the Pods. However, I have found the undissolved pod in my dryer on several occasions. I didn't discover it until I was removing the clothes from the dryer. The clothes were spotted all over from the undissolved detergent. I had to wash them again. After it happened again tonight, I will not use the Pods again.
I have been using Tide for a kazillion years and have always been extremely satisfied so I thought I would try the PODS. Very disappointed in them, clothes are NOT coming out as bright as they used to - doubt very much if I'll use them anymore instead will go back to the liquid tide I have been using for so long.
I use tide for every load of laundry. I was super excited to try the new pods. I used them for the first time this weekend and ruined an entire load of laundry. The 'test' load of towels washed fine. The next load of laundry is ruined. I have three pairs of ruined lucky jeans, a limited shirt, bras and most of my tank tops. They have streaks of 'wet' all over them and were actually sticking together. No matter how many times I have re washed and soaked the clothes. They are ruined. I am beyond mad I trusted this new product and wish I hated liquid tide enough to leave the brand completely. What a waste of a product
We just purchased a new Samsung front loader. We had a new pack of Tide Pods from our previous washer and liked their convenience. However, We have now used our new washer twice wtih the pods and found them only partially dissolved in the detergent tray. Its too bad becasue now we have a bunch of pods we can't use. Both Tide and the Samsung sites said the pods would be okay but obviously they were wrong.
I called the Tide Company and asked about the quantity of detergent in the Tide pods. I was assured that the amount of detergent in the pods would be okay for any size load of laundry. This did not sound right to me. I have had my water tested by 3 different companies, and each one said that I have very good water, which is not too hard and not too soft. I tried a Tide pod for a small to medium size load of laundry. When the wash cycle was complete, the clothes felt sticky, and there were some suds left in the washer. I had to put the clothes through 4 more wash cycles without any detergent, to get the detergent out of the clothes. This was a big waste of time and water, which defeated the purpose of of having an HE washer. The Tide pods are not suitable for small or medium size wash loads. If you do a small or medium size load, you have to use either Tide HE powder or Tide HE liquid, so you can adjust the amount of detergent to the size of the wash load. Therefore, I will never use tide pods again. I only tried it once and had to throw the rest of them away.
I switched from my normal brand to try the tide pods. I was really hoping that this product would work out for me and my family. After using the pods I noticed blue streaks on my clothes. Some of which were brand new and the first time washing. I must say I am disapointed in this product and will not buy it again. If I squeeze the product under water into the washer this will not happen however, the reason I bought it was to simplify my life.
I have used Tide for many years. I was excited when the pods came out and bought a large container. I thought this would be less messy than pouring from a bottle. It is but, the packages damage easily and melt in the container so I lose a lot of the product. The packaging of this product needs to be improved. I tried other detergent pods and I do not have this problem.
Our family had been using Ultra Tide plus Bleach powder for many, many years. We were very disappointed when we discovered it was replaced with Tide Vivid. We are also disappointed in the less than stellar results of Vivid. We will now be looking for a replacement product and will never use a Tide product again until they bring back the best laundry detergent ever, Ultra Tide plus Bleach.
Tide Coldwater is the WORST product I have ever used! I used to be a loyal Tide user, but after using the coldwater I discovered random spots on my husband's work shirts, then again noticed bluish/purple spots on ALL our white load. This product cost my family hundreds of dollars to buy new clothes. (I always put the detergent in the water first then load the clothes in for those who question how I do laundry) This product is HORRIBLE. Don't waste your money!! You will end up buying a new wardrobe...
So, I'm disappointed. It is a good idea, but still needs some work. Changing to warmer water settings is unrealistic for most of my work clothes. I don't pack the washer, but I do fill it, and don't have any problems with other detergent types. I'll use up what I have left in my hot washes and I won't buy these again.
Procter and Gamble has just went crazy naming everything "with Febreze" because none of it actually smells like Febreze. I purchased a package of these for our gym clothes thinking they might make them stay fresh and look a little less dingy since they get worn 5-6 days a week. I threw a load in and added some Tide HE powdered detergent and a Tide Boost Febreze Victory Sport pack. The end result was awful. The clothes came out of the washer smelling like sweet pickles. It seems the Victory Sport scent is inspried by Vlasic??? It was a sweet but sour smell. Just to make sure I didn't do something wrong, I washed a load of socks with a boost pack and some Tide HE Clean Breeze powdered detergent. Same outcome... sour lingering smell. It smelled nothing like Febreze or Tide. I called the 1800 number on the bag and was told that the color safe bleach product used in the packs does have a definitive and unique scent. I would call it just gross. The offered to refund my purchase price if I sent in my receipt and barcode from the package, I gladly took them up on the offer and gave the Boost packs to the local food pantry, maybe someone could use them while tolerating the strange scent. As for their effectiveness, they seemed to do a good job at stain removal but I cannot speak to the scent removal as the pickle scent could have just been masking it. Change up the scent and I might try them again.
I've tried them all...but when I found this on Amazon for such an Amazing price, I had to buy (used the coupon too)...I could tell it was different from the other brands just by the consistency of the liquid - is brighter, thicker and visually richer. Didn't seem watered down like many other brands I have tried. The clothes came out brighter and smelled fantastic. I'm now hooked on Tide.
I had been looking for the Cold Water variation of Tide, ever since I saw a bottle at the local Ollie's for $10 and passed it over in favor of a new Transformer. Boy, was I happy when I saw this on Amazon! I quickly added a bottle to my cart, hoping no one else bought before I finished my transaction. While my browser was busy loading the payment page, it struck me that I may want to budget for such a fantastic purchase. I switched windows to Excel, where I keep the finances (that's the only reason anyone buys Office, right?), and did the math: I could either buy this bottle, for $9,999.00 + $7.49 shipping, or pay the mortgage for the next 10 months. I took a gamble, switched backed to my browser, and purchased. A red rush of excitement spread my lips to the shape of a smile, and I knew I had made the right decision. The whole experience reminded me of being in college, and buying my $400 iPod with the next month's rent-- those were the days! Needless to say, when I told the spouse we could wash laundry for another few weeks, they were more than happy to tell me I did a good job. I felt liberated from the constraints of soiled clothing, and, having the blessing of the spouse, began planning the week for the arrival of my detergent. This would be a joyous occasion. When the detergent arrived, I was shocked that it was merely left on my doorstep like some common package. I yelled at the delivery driver as they pulled away (they like to ding-dong-ditch-- I got to the door quick enough to see them this time), but the deed was done. Regardless, it was now time to enjoy the detergent that had so been missing since that fateful day at Ollie's! Upon first use, I spilled a bit on the floor-- not a lot, just a couple caps worth. The texture was so impressive: like some sort of Sci-Fi goo, but a Sci-Fi goo that cleans stains! Amazed, I put the first full cap into the washer, and marveled at how easily the water consumed my detergent. Soon, bubbles appeared, and I knew I was in business! I put the clothes in, shut the lid, and let the washer take the wheel. During the spin cycle, I couldn't hold back and opened the lid. Sure enough, I could only see the soaked, wall-wrapped clothes I knew were now clean. I breathed deeply and shut the lid to let the washer finish. While I was putting the oh-so-clean, fragrance-free clothes into the dryer, the spouse walked by and mentioned that we received a notice from the lender that the mortgage would be due soon. "Great!," I thought-- "I can go to work in these clean clothes and enjoy working to pay our mortgage! My detergent is so wonderful." I sighed, and continued transferring the clothes from the washer to the dryer. Before the buzzer could sound on the dryer, I opened the door and stood still, basking in the warmth of now-clean clothes. It was as though they had never been clean before, but now were. My detergent did better than I had hoped. Fast forward to today, and I can't say I'm not enjoying the local shelter. It's cramped, smells of sneaker-feet and a gym locker-room, but I'm still wearing the clothes I washed a few months back. Sure, the spouse took their clothes and washed them at their parents', but I can smell the fragrance-free detergent on mine; I can still feel the freshness.
The scent is faint, but you can tell your clothes have been washed. I use 2 for small to med loads and 3 for towels and more soiled items. Thus it will not last as long as advertised. I guess I could try what is recommended, but I am skeptical. And it would be a waste to have to re-wash. I am going to see how long it lasts based on the liquid, as I usally end up using a little more of that as well. If it is around the same, I would buy it again.
I have ruined clothes by insanely using the pods again and again hoping for better results. This product leaves a blue plastic residue on whichever article of clothings rests near the pack.
I wanted to love these pods - so easy and you don't have a cup to clean out. However, recently I started to get dark blue stains on a few items. And there have been hard plastic-like residue sticking to items. At first I thought that someone was wrong with the washer or something was in pockets. But then it happened on a load of sheets. After a little investigating I became suspicious that it was the Tide pods. Sure enough I look at reviews and others have the same problem. I don't mind paying more for convenience, but now it has destroyed my new Jennifer Adams sheets, towels and some clothes!!
Smells great & works well. :-)
This is a review of the 92 oz "Tide-Downey" I've lately been feeling like I should change from my real name to "The Budget Reviewer"! It's partly due to my age & the severe inflation of the last 2-3 years (I have a mindset that products "should" cost a certain amount), & partly due to my declining income; but when I review an item I not only look at quality; I also look at value. I don't have any problem with the quality of this product. While I didn't notice clothing or bedding being any softer than usual, it did have a very pleasant moderate odor. I may or may not be slightly allergic to something in it; after washing my bedding I had a horrible night's sleep, but I really can't blame that on the product at this point. And the clothes were definitely clean (which is what I expect with any detergent). The HUGE negative for me is the price ($19.66 + s/h as of today). Unlike other reviewers, my bottle is 92 ounces as shown in today's photograph. The last detergent I bought in a grocery store was a 75 ounce bottle of Sun liquid for $3.00. While this smells slightly better, it doesn't smell $16.66 + shipping better! I guess if you are wealthy I could recommend it, but if not, I suggest going to your local discount grocery store..............
Never having bought this product, I'm not sure of the value but it sure worked on my white slacks at a party as I got a stain on them & found this Tide product in a basket in the restroom & tried it. It instantly removed the stain without spreading it around!! I will buy them as soon as I find them at the store,no matter the cost!
What a great idea - get all your laundry needs in one package. Love the Pods! They are so easy to use and completely mess free for those of us who are physically challenged. They clean like a dream even in my hard water. The Downy scent pellets are very effective. I even poured some in a small container and put them in a room that had an odor problem to freshen it after cleaning. I think I might sprinkle some in a small bag for the bottom of my laundry bin during the muggy summer. The scent is fresh and quite invigorating when used in the laundry. . . A real plus for front loaders that can get funky smelling after while. The Bounce dryer sheets are another very effective product that I find myself always going back to even though I try new ones all the time. All in all this is a terrific bundle. I'm not sure that I would get it every time though, since I don't use fabric softener in every load of clothes so I don't know yet if I'm going to end up with too much fabric softener when it's time to reorder.
I dont like this product at all. Didnt dissolve and ruined brand new nautica sweater in HE machine because the outer shell went all over the bottom of sweater. Wish I could return for refund.
I had high hopes for Pods, but like many others I found that they didn't dissolve well. Leaving behind a gunky blue gel that made some of my clothes stick together, so not only did I have to manually scrub the articles of clothing but then wash them again. I tried putting less clothes in, changing the temperature settings, etc, but still the same results. Ugh. I will NEVER waste my money on these again, nor would I recommend them to ANYONE.
I bought the Tide Pods thinking that they would be a quick and simple way to do my laundry. They seemed to be working ok, but not as good as the liquid Tide that I have ALWAYS used. I figured I would use up the rest of the package of Pods that I had bought, and then return to the liquid. Well I put the Pod in the bottom of the machine (like the directions say to do) and added my comforter to the machine. When I took the comforter out, there is a huge purpleish stain on it that I CANNOT get out. Needless to say, I will not be using the remaining Pods that I have.
As a lifelong, brand loyal Tide customer, I was thrilled when I saw PODS in the store and noted it could be used in HE washers. Following the directions, I placed the POD in the bottom of my washer and placed clothes on top. At least four times, the outer shell has not dissolved and went undetected until after the dryer. What a pain! I have to soak and scrub it out and then rewash to make sure no residue is remaining. I am very disappointed in this product. I find it hard to believe that this did not come up in product testing as others have experienced this as well. I expect great things from P&G and Tide and firmly believe you get what you pay for. In this case, I got an inferior product. I will think twice about trying a new Tide product in the future.
I had been looking for a high quality detergent for the combo (washer/dryer) in my motorhome. Because the washing machine is High Efficiency it easily over suds and the manufacturer recommends that I only use a table spoon of detergent. Cheaper brands do not clean with that little amount. But the TIDE works like magic. The reviewers I read who complained about the concentration and detergent residue should use a much reduced amount in their machine. I really did not use TIDE for many years because it seemed so expensive. But if I can use just 2 to 3 teaspoons vs a 1/4 to 1/2 cup of the "cheaper" detergents, I am saving money big time. I can get 64 washes out of the 50 oz/32 wash Original TIDE!!! Just for the record, I used the "original TIDE" when it only came as a powder in a box.
Tide is truly the best detergent on the market, I do love gain to and it's a few dollars cheaper than tide, but tide is definitely a more concentrated product and because of that you use less and it lasts longer. One might be scared of the price but u actual use less, I always fill up to line one only. Also nothing gets clothes cleaner than tide, the febreze scent is fresh and clean, its basically orginal tide with the scent added, but it reminds me more of orginal tide more than anything. It you value your clothes, use tide.
Consumer Reports and Amazon reviewers are in agreement that Tide and Bounce are consumer favorites and clean and soften well. Although I have a history of using both, I recently tried Kirkland Signature (Costco) because you can buy it for half the price and it still has good ratings. It worked alright but Tide is better. Pods - If I was the only one doing the laundry, I wouldn't spend extra to get the pods. I know exactly how much detergent to use and I have a convenient laundry room. But if others are doing laundry, they might be using too much detergent. If I want to teach the grandkids to wash clothes, I feel less of a need to supervise with the pods. For them, the extra cost is worth it. If I had to go to a laundromat, I'd rather tote a handful of pods than the humongous bottle of detergent that I buy. So the pods have their place and their cleaning power is top of the line. Bounce - Although I prefer the softness of Downy liquid (and I haven't found any other softener that I like as well), I skip it when doing towels and just throw in a Bounce sheet instead. Technically, I shouldn't use any softener with towels but I'm willing to sacrifice absorbancy for the softness and fresh smell. Which is where the scent booster comes into play. Unstopable - Other than for towels (and maybe sheets), I really don't want any extra scent in my clothes. My family members disagree on what scent is pleasant and what is overwhelming but the family seems to particularly like it when the pool towels smell good. I think the bundle would make a great housewarming gift or present for a college student. Not sure about the subscribe and save option because I'd burn through the pods a lot faster than the Bounce and Unstopable.
Love tide with febreze , love the smell & it get my clothes clean
Have used exclusively for yrs. Now w/ HE machine. Apply directly to stains before throwing into hamper and 9 times out of ten, the stain is gone. Leaves clothes fresh smelling.
I absolutely love these! As a college student on a budget I didn't think I could justify the cost of them but then I did some calculations and it turns out that these save me money. I was buying generic detergent in a big bottle for around $6, supposedly each bottle did 60 loads but I only got 20 or so loads out of each and my clothes were NEVER clean. I saw a small pack of these on sale so I bought then and boy am I glad I did! My clothes are much cleaner, they have a light and very appealing fragrance and I am no longer hauling bottles around. One 72 count package of these is more then enough to get me through an entire school year and they don't take up much space in my dorm so I am thrilled. Parents if you have a child going to college buy them these Tide Pods! They take the guess work out of laundry!
For the rest of us, I recommend buying a 4 ounce measuring cup and marking the levels with a sharpie. The cup will pay for itself in savings several times over on your first box.
As a long-time Tide user, I occasionally go looking for something as effective but cheaper. I decided to give this a try after reading all the positive reviews. I washed two loads of laundry and then looked at the results. The scent was nice, better than Tide's, but it was so strong that my husband complained about it on his pillow. It was so strong he had me re-wash the pillow case. Another strike came when I found a white shirt with chocolate ice cream stains on it. That was a first for me. Tide occasionally left a stain here and there but NEVER ice cream. So I guess I will be returning to my old detergent. Disappointing.
I my opinion this mountain spring is the worst smelling liquid detergent I have ever used.
I have always used tide laundry detergent because I Love it. I decided to try the tide pods 90 pac. I used them and noticed that it didn't dissolve all the way so i re washed my laundry and it was fine. The next load i did i made sure i put in less laundry thinking that would help, but again it didn't dissolve all the way leaving blue and white slimy detergent and plastic on my clothes. I won't ever use tide pods again. I would really like to be reimbursed so I can buy regular detergent that won't ruin my laundry!!!!!
I have always used tide laundry detergent because I Love it. I decided to try the tide pods 90 pac. I used them and noticed that it didn't dissolve all the way so i re washed my laundry and it was fine. The next load i did i made sure i put in less laundry thinking that would help, but again it didn't dissolve all the way leaving blue and white slimy detergent and plastic on my clothes. I won't ever use tide pods again. I would really like to be reimbursed so I can buy regular detergent that won't ruin my laundry!!!!!
We (our five children and us) live in the country - chickens, ducks, climbing trees, trails... stuff like that. So. Our clothes get DIRTY. I'm happy to say, that these Tide Pods did great for us. I have a front-loader, and have to pop the soap pod in with the clothes, not the soap container/applicator unit, but had no issues with it. The children, ages 6 to 12, have gotten JUST as dirty and their clothes come out just as clean as when I've used the liquid Gain that I typically use. The dryer sheets are a nice bonus, and the "smelly pebbles" as my kindergartener calls them are nice in small doses. Nothing earth shattering - but good laundry detergent. I'd buy it again.
First off, Amazon shipped fast, arrived on time, good job. I ordered this setup for a future overseas deployment. I have been using the included items in the package and have had no issues. Where I am located, these are great, because the dirty clothes come out smelling great. I am loving the crystals (never used them before) and will purchase them separately in the future. No need to review the pods or the fabric softener, since we all know that those have been around before and they are both great products.
I purchased this for the first time. My Nephew/son MJ is into every sport there is. I tried it for the extra kick they said Febreze adds. Well it did and it does do exactly what it needed. Tide is the best laundry detergent ever made.
I picked up a small bottle of this just to try. I have a good HE front loader than I have never had issue with and only use Tide products with good results. With this product, just besides the unpleasant artificial scent, came a huge sudsing problem. While the bottle said that it was HE compatible and I did not use that much detergent, each time I used it, it created far too many suds. The last time I used it and pinpointed the issue, the entire drum was filled with suds and I did not use that much detergent. Spending my evening trying to clean my washer when I had a lot of laundry to do was not my idea of fun. While I will continue using Tide products, this specific product is extremely disappointing.
My review has nothing to do with the product. Ultra Tide HE is great. However, I did not realize that I was paying almost $35 for a product that I could buy for $18 or less locally. In addition, I could buy a much larger box at Costco for only a few dollars more. I am keeping the item, as it would cost almost $10 to return the product. However, I've learned my lesson and will not purchasing detergent through Amazon again.
I wanted to try this product and bought 138 oz bottle. The minute I opened the bottle to pour it in Washing Machine I was struck with awful highly perfumed scent. I had to redo all the clothes of that load with regular tide. I would not recommend this product to anyone unless they don't mind its extreme scent.
this is one of my fav soaps , now to if i save money from ordering it on amazon compared to buying it in store. no i do not . Things in hawaii are pretty pricey i probably saved a $1.00 The reason for this purchase was to save me a trip to the store , have one less thing to think about . AND IT WORKED. After seeing a picture of how a shipment arrived to one home , I was afraid that it would not arrive safely . The package was smaller than I expected and there was no extra padding to buffer the bottles. It arrived with out any spills !! Totally will purchase again .
A few years ago Tide changed their formula for "tide powder". The old Tide powder worked much better. We bought about 20-30 boxes at Big Lots when they discontinued the old formula but eventually we ran out and now this is our only option. It doesn't work great but it's okay. I wish Amazon's price were consistently better but it's not great.
I have used tide for about 20 years now and love it. I was hesitant to try the pods because I was fearful they would stain my clothes because the pod sits in the washer. I was in the store with my husband and we were looking at them and a lady passing by said she loves the pods and her clothes are cleaner and smell better so we gave it a try and now we are hooked. the scents are great and my clothes look GREAT!!!
I have just read through a lot of the postings here, and the responses from TIDE customer service. I am not sure what is going on - my pods are kept cool and dry, are not stuck, broken or damaged in any way. I have used them on cold water, warm and hot washes - and they still do not completely dissolve - instead they get trapped in the door of the front loader, and then stick to laundry as I am trying to take it out! I have used them on a full, half and EMPTY wash - no difference. They still do not completely dissolve. They smell great in the container - however there is absolutely no scent when my laundry is completed - probably because they are not dissolving properly. The concept is great - however the damage and inconvenience of having to rewash laundry, clean out the seal where the pods have got stuck are considerable, when all I was trying to do was avoid the residue that is found after pouring liquid detergent into the cup. I will stick with liquid detergent, and try another brand. Very disappointed.
I have always used Tide. But recently I used the pods recently and I would like to say my clothes come out clean and smell fresh. All you have to do is toss one in and let it do its job. Keep coming up with great prodcuts!
I agree with the other reviews of the horrible odor, it is NOT a frangrant smell, it is almost like a mildewy automotive smell, it is horrible! Had a friend mention the same with this product, it mostly just effects the towels. WIill no buy this again! I am surprised anyone finds it "fragrant"?
I have allergies and decided to try Tide Free and Gentle. Not only did my clothes come out clean, there was no perfume odor, just clean. My clothes smell clean because they are clean. I will never again use any other detergent for my clothes.
I was excited to find this product for our smelly workout clothes. And it does lessen the sweat odor. Unfortunately, it also replaces it with an even more offensive scent (in my opinion). At first I tried only using it for our workout clothes, but ended up throwing 1/2 of the bottle away because I just couldn't stand the smell. The only way I'd try this again is if they release an unscented version.
I usually make my own laundry detergent, but due to some medical problems, I am unable to do very much around the house lately. Because of this, my wonderful husband has been doing laundry for a long time. I was noticing that we were going through a lot more detergent, and apparently that is because he thinks that more detergent=more clean. The thing is, with Tide, you don't need more! I bought the Tide Pods for "portion control" of the detergent, and I actually saved money over buying the liquid, because it only takes one pod per large load (despite their recommendation for using 2 or 3, I always use just 1), and they last a long time. I only buy them in the largest package and only on Amazon, because you can get them for around 15 dollars sometimes, as long as you aren't picky about what scent you want, since it varies what is on sale. I will probably go back to homemade laundry detergent at some point, but this is good for the time being.
This is a great bundle of top quality laundry products. This is really the highest of the high-end as far as I can tell. The products individually all do a wonderful job. I have reviewed the Tide Pods specifically as an individual product and gave them 5 stars. The bounce sheets do a much better job fighting static cling, removing wrinkles, and softening fabric than generic sheets, and even have enough content left to be used a second time. So great value here. The Downy in-wash scent booster is the one puzzling component of this bundle. The Tide pods and Bounce sheets are already scented very strongly, it almost renders the Downy scent booster unnecessary. I agree with another reviewer that it should probably be used for special jobs. Laundry that really needs some powerful scent to overcome residual odor, or laundry that is going to be washed and then left unused for months. This product is so powerfully scented that you can smell it even when the bottle is closed. The smell will greet you when you open the box. Laundry treated with this product will improve the smell of the entire room or closet that it resides in. I thought about just taking a single bead and hiding it in various rooms around the house just to see if it could also serve as a home fragrance product. I agree with other reviewers that the bundle itself is kind of a strange concept. It does attempt to provide an equal amount of laundry detergent (70 pods) as dryer sheets (68 sheets). I use 2 pods when I do an over sized load in my 4.5 cu/ft HE washer, so that will throw the count off, but that's OK I guess. I have a feeling that I would use the Downy much more slowly, and so would be reluctant to buy this bundle as a refill after a couple of months for fear of accumulating multiple unused bottles of the Downy. From a value perspective, I think the bundle does save a few dollars vs. buying each of the products individually on Amazon. I don't think I would give this bundle to someone as a gift. I think people who have a summer home that they live in for a couple of months, or "snowbirds" who migrate south for the winter months might like this concept of having everything they need for laundry in a nice little kit. Anyway, If this bundle fits your buying pattern, you certainly can't argue with the product quality. It may also be a good value too.
This is a really great little bundle. All the products in this set are phenomenal, and my go-to brands for laundry. The pods: I absolutely LOVE these! No measuring, no cups that get sticky with liquid, none of that. Just pop a pod into the washing machine, and you're done! They always dissolve easily, the clothes are always clean, and they smell nice, too. Really a great way to use laundry detergent. The unstoppables: I really like this product. I love when my clothes smell nice, and no matter what scent you get these in, they do exactly that. They give them an extra boost of fragrance (which is excellent if you have a house full of smelly boys, like I do!) and they're easy to use and not at all messy. I continue to buy them when I run out. The dryer sheets: Really, Bounce is the best there is when it comes to dryer sheets. Nothing gets rid of static like they do. We live in a very dry climate, so if we don't use a dryer sheet, or use a substandard one, there is ALWAYS a ton of static! This particular scent is classic, too. It smells great, they always work, I just love them! Overall, this is an excellent bundle, and I would without a doubt buy it. There is no item in it that you would regret having.
I love how clean Tide always gets our clothes, so when Simply Clean came out I decided to give it a try. I am thrilled how great it smells, how clean it got our clothes and how much cheaper it is than regular Tide. So far we have bought 4 of the big bottles and will continue to buy more. Highly recommend this.
I've been using Arm & Hammer detergent for years because it's so hypoallergenic, but when I ran out of my last bottle, I tried Tide Free & Gentle. I was delighted with it. Not only did I have no allergic or asthmatic reaction, but my laundry was as soft as if I had used a softener (I didn't). It cleaned beautifully, which is the whole point of detergent, but it is priced higher than my old Arm & Hammer standby. Even on sale (I got 50 oz for $5.64 in August, 2013) it's almost twice the price of Arm & Hammer. So, would I continue to use it? Actually, I think I will, but only if I buy it on sale.
I usually buy an all natural product that's for sensitive skin. I had read once that Tide (the regular version) caused a build up in HE machines. I had tried Tide before and hadn't experienced that, but it said it happened over time with regular use. Amazon had a coupon, a great price, and free shipping on a 2 pack of this Tide Free and Gentle so I thought I would give it a try. I would not typically buy detergent online. As far as skin sensitivity, I have not noticed any issues. The clothes seem clean, and I haven't had a problem with gunk build up with 1/2 a bottle used. So overall, I guess this stuff is okay, but once these are gone, I will go back to the natural detergent I was using. I have never had any sensitivity issues, it's comparably priced and haven't had any issues with build up over years of use. Besides, I'd rather use natural products, and it's also locally made.
I was really hesitant that this product would do what it says it would. Still, I expected it would at least provide me with a quick pre-treatment for stains until I could get home and soak the items or put them directly into the wash. With four kids in the house, having an effective pre-treatment is nearly a requirement to keep kids' clothing in good condition. There is a 3 year old, 7, 9 and 13 year old in the house and every one of them is as active as every kid should be. Also, they are just as messy as every kid their age is. I immediately became attracted to the fact that this product is compact. It will fit anywhere. I have one everywhere: purse, kids backpack, glove compartment, etc. Here's the kicker....to my surprise, this product really does eliminate stains while it pre-treats. Although it doesn't make it disappear completely as the commercial suggests (what product really does?), you can still see the stain with the naked eye. BUT, you have to practically be close enough to the stain that your nose is touching it in order to see it. When it comes to how long these little miracle workers last, it truly depends on how often you use them. The one in my purse gets used much quicker. My 3 year old is the messiest by far, so I'm always using this on her clothes. I need to buy a new one for my purse every few months or so. As I mentioned, it depends on how much you use it. The one in my glove compartment still has enough solution to continue using it, and the ones in the kids backpacks are just about ready to need to be replaced. It seems that we use these things anytime we wear white. Go figure! With that said, I'm always ordering more of these, by the package of 3 if I can through Amazon because the price is very competitive to other places such as Target, Wal Mart, etc. it's even more competitive when you pay the yearly fee to use Amazon Prime and it arrives at your door in under two days. This product is worth the price, and is truly the "epi pen" for stain treatment on the spot, and for pre-treatment prior to washing. I highly recommend this to mothers, and pretty much everyone else that wishes to keep their clothing in good standing condition.
I'm furious with Walmart. I send big packages to my nieces in college in Georgia and have done so for a couple of years.... and you are usually so good at taping down and securing wet items. Instead the spouts on the Tide nor the shampoo were NOT taped down and my niece had a big mess to clean up. She claims that non of the food items were damaged but the box of tampax was. what are you going to do about it?
WalMart sent part of my order but not this item. I would like a refund if they can't deliver.
This was the first time I had tried a kit like this that contains Tide pods as well as fabric softener and bounce sheets, and I'm very pleased overall. The chief benefit of this product over the regular bottle or box of detergent is convenience. The pods are really handy to use. Just pull one out and drop it in the machine, and the dryer sheets that come with it are designed to last about as long as the detergent. Highly recommended for people who want to keep laundry as simple as possible. I give only 4 stars for two reasons. First, I find that I don't use the fabric softener very often. If you are the same, this means that you're basically paying for something that you don't use. Secondly, the cost of pods, even in a kit like this, is slightly more than you would pay for ordinary detergent in a bulk pack. Otherwise, I'm very pleased overall and would recommend this product, especially if my reservations listed here don't apply to you!
I'm a life long tide girl, but had never tried the pods before. I really like them. The bounce sheets are a favorite too, and useful for much more than just laundry care, great sachets in drawers, under car seats, etc. I also use them to clean the tv screens and computer screens after I have used them in the dryer, they work great on that static type dust! The scent is long lasting. I have been using the downy scent beads since they came out, and we all love the fragrances available and how long lasting they are. I tried some of the less expensive types of beads, and this is definitely a case where you get what you pay for. The cheaper ones don't scent the clothes as long, and don't smell as good. If you need a gift for a student heading off to college, this is a nicely priced and practical one. Great for a small shower gift, too.
Cheaper detergents just dont work.
I love tide but the smell of this detergent is awful. I had to go and buy new detergent to rewash to get rid of the smell. Not sure what they were thinking with this particular fragrance.
Simplicity is how i viewed this product but i was very wrong....The tide pods not only stained my clothing, it left behind plastic on them which is impossible to get off. i have tried rewashing in hot water to see if they would melt, i tried ironing it out to see if that would help. nothing. the $4 bag of tide pods i bought and used ruined at least $200 worth of clothing in my house. i would NOT recommend this product to anyone. i will go back to making my homemade laundry soap.
To date, we used Charlie's products for the most part, although when we run out and forget to re-order Charlie's (which isn't always easy to find) we always go with Tide. So we got this product grouping from Amazon and my wife was pretty excited to use it. The stand out favorite was the Pods. Our washer/dryer were just purchased about a year ago and are higher end Samsungs HEs. You can use any cleaner you want with them and you'll get great results. But we've run into two problems. First is other people (mother in law mainly) forgetting what HE is and overloading the soap reservoir. The second is that we got some of this really thick fabric softener (I forget which it was, but it was a very popular name brand and it was thicker than maple syrup). The second caused a problem. When the first happened, we'd have overflow. When the second happened, the clothes wouldn't get any fabric softener and it would block a few of the next loads usually necessitating manual intervention. Being able to just throw in a pod or two depending on the load size is a huge convenience. No more having to measure out the right amount. No more mismeasurements. No more turning the bottles over or any of that type of stuff. It sounds like a really glaring 1st world problem and it is, but I tell you it's nice (we've had probably 20 different overflow situations with relatives on holidays, confusing when we accidentally got a non-HE version and then going back, or just the learning curve when we first got the utility. Being able to tell mom - "Just throw one pod in and your'e good" is tremendously beneficial. The Fabric softener is good. There's not much I can say. It's not liquid so it doesn't use the reservoir. Hence there's no clogging. We had one person attempt to put it in the reservoir, fortunately it was easily remedied. When used correctly, your clothes smell great. How much is the softener and how much is the machine I can't say b/c we got a water softener when we got the machines so everything was night and day from the get go. All in all I'd have to say this version of Downy is good and my wife absolutely loves it. I tried to press her for the review and she said "I just do, it's easy to use and clothes smell great" and there's no arguing there. Lastly is the dryer sheets. Bounce is awesome stuff, always has been, is now. They definitely add the icing to a great cake. We always throw in a few extra and make a habit of sticking one sheet in between every other item when putting stuff in the laundry baskets once folded. Your clothes already smell good and this keeps them smelling fresh if you have them sitting in a drawer for a long period of time. I can't tell how much better or different these sheets are from the traditional bounce we used - we are pretty loyal to the brand (Charlie's doesn't make dryer sheets that I know of) so we grab what's on sale at Publix most of the time. In any case, we've been using them for year and still are big fans. I haven't used this set without a water softener or on an older machine but I suspect everything would proportionately work just as well. We are pretty loyal to using Charlie's stuff (I know, I've said that several times already) we now keep two backups of this combination and each time we've needed it, we've been very pleased.
Cleans well and has a great scent!
Tide very good detergent but warning never have this product delivered to your home along with other products. The TIDE PODS were handled with out any disregard they exploded inside and then leaked out of its plastic container getting many items wet with detergent.
Great for all my colored uniforms
Love this! Easy for my husband to use on his own! He just pops it in and goes.
Tide is the cleanest most reliable product on the detergent line ups. LOVE it and always pick it over any other other brand.
Love this product for whole family including kids
I have been using most of these items for a while except the Bounce sheets. Putting them all together in this "kit" taught me something new about scent! Using these together without my usual liquid fabric softener made the laundry smell awesome! Using just the Bounce sheets left our clothes a little more "stiff" and I'd like to add it to the mix but that and needing a bit more of the Unstoppables are the only little issues I have with the kit itself. I most likely wouldn't buy it here as I can get all these items where I buy groceries and using coupons and sales I can definitely get it for quite a bit less so the only way I would buy it here is if they lower the price (even the Subscribe & Save price doesn't beat what I can usually get these items for) or I have no coupons and the items aren't on sale and my supply is low.
This Tide is amazing! The value price is so great and this particular scent is wonderful! Your clothes get very clean and smell wonderful!
I have been using Tide with Bleach powder for many years and will continue to do so.
I have used Tide for decades but, after being divorced, I had to give up some of the better brand things & go with cheaper items. Well, after trying different soaps, I have discovered that using Tide is less expensive. The other stuff did not clean as well or did my clothes smell like they do with Tide. It is true you get what you pay for.
I have an invalid at home who soaks his bedding. The most expensive detergents fell far short as far as removing odors goes. Now, I spend a little and get laundry that is clean and smells pretty good compared with Tide with Febreze. Hope they don't try to "improve" Sun. It's great just the way it is.
I like these time-saving pods. No messy measuring. They work good
In a new LG HE steam washer, one pod went through both the sanitary wash and hot dryer without dissolving. The load was top and bottom twin sheets, mattress protector and square of hospital sheeting. I've had them open and not completely dissolve but this is the first time finding one that went thru both machines unopened. I will be checking each load more careful.
I just had my first child and needed a detergent with enzymes to help remove baby formula stains. This product works wonders! I soak any clothing, bibs, sheets, blankets, etc. that have spit-up on them in a tub of cold water and Tide Free & Gentle and have yet to take an item out that has a stain still in it! Great product. My only reason for giving it 4 stars instead of 5 is because of the price, I wish it were cheaper.
I like this new Ultra High Efficiency Liquid Laundry Detergent. It only takes a little each load which helps in more usuages.
PS: I like all the different scents just the same, too. My rating: 4.9 (The 0.1 point deduction is for the fact that you must keep them absolutely dry until use.)
I love the scent and this is the product my washer repair person suggested for our front-loading washer. You just need a small amount. I wish they made the Tide for sports clothes in the High Efficiency version.
Great smell, good clean, nice price. What more could you ask for? Ignore all the dated reviews about whether you get two 25 oz. bottles etc. You now get a full 92 oz. (about 48 loads worth) for under $12. Would use product again.
When I was a child, my mom would use no other brand of laundry detergent. I'd forgotten what a great job it does, whitening whites and bringing out colors. I love the fresh smell. It's a bit expensive compared to the bargain brands, but definitely worth it for the job it does. I think I'll switch back permanently!
This is somewhat difficult to find in my local stores so I'm happy to buy it from Amazon. I use it for any of my white loads along with regular Tide HE detergent, and I believe it takes the dinginess out of white t-shirts & socks. I'm a repeat purchaser - on my third bag of these.
I bought these pods for my college apartment since they're pre-measured, and so I don't have to worry about spilling the detergent anywhere. My apartment came with a new HE front-load washer, so it's easy to just toss these in, throw my clothes in, and just turn the washer on. However, I noticed that in some cases the pod seems to push toward the front of the front load washer, and it just disintegrates down into the drain/rubber door frame consequently not even getting any soap on my clothes at all (resulting in me having to pause the washer and needing to throw another pod in or attempting to throw the half disintegrated pod back into the washer). Also, one time when I washed my sheets the pod did not disintegrate the whole way, and without realizing it I just tossed them in the dryer. The "biodegradable" pod melted all over my sheets and left blue marks everywhere. Luckily, a little bit of water and re-washing them fixed the problem (but it wasn't exactly all that convenient). So, overall these pods are convenient, easy to store, easy to use, and do get my clothes clean [when they choose to cooperate with the washer]!
I have tried other brands but nothing cleans like Tide. With Tide you know your clothes are clean.
THESE ARE EASY & CONVIENT FOR COLLEGE KIDS, 1 POD 1 MEDIUM LOAD & YOUR DONE... COULD IT GET ANY EASIER...
We have a grandchild that has very sensative skin. Using this product removes the unnecessary skin irritations for her.
I am highly disappointed in Tide-to-go. I got a small, simple stain on colored pants at work and thought my Tide-to-go would be the easy answer. That's exactly what it is for right? I used the product which completely discolored my pants, so the pants are left with a white splotch on the front and ruined. Now I am out the price of the pair of pants. :(
I have always loved Tide products as they are amazing. I have tried other brands-like the commercials-and I always ended up back with Tide. I love the convenience of the pods. They make doing laundry even easier and no chance of spilling all over the place. I have to admit though that these pods smell the best of all of the pods. There are a couple of them that I would venture to say smell bad.
I like the fact it's just what i need just the right amount for each wash load.
I have used this Tide & this specific scent ever since Tide joined with Febreze so it's over 10 years (haven't kept track because I've used Tide 30+ years). For those of you who haven't used it or perhaps like me once tried a cheaper brand (but of course the next week came right back been ever since) You won't be sorry.My clothes have never been cleaner/ brighter & smelling ahh so so good! For the price it is worth it I will never try another brand of laundry soap again unless Tide would go out of business which I highly doubt.Seriously if you want to look & smell your best than BUY IT !! Luv Luv this scent please keep it around...
Have to say that we didn't have great expectations for this soap, getting workout clothes, yard work clothes,and dog urine smell out of fabric has been a challenge. We decide to give this a try and finally for our needs this detergent seems to rid our clothes of the odor. For our dogs belly band that he wears at night we have to soak it first then wash. So far this is the only detergent that gets the smell out.
This is a very great product,you don't have to measure,it is very convenient .
I like the large size, it's great for large loads of laundry.
It was great that the individual film of the pod was made to quickly desolve...I like to visibly see the detergent react in the water. The down-side is that even in cool-kept temperatures, pods outer film will dissolve and what started great are dissolving one by one and the moisture from each, wets the next just enough to leak until they have all congeled together and you end up with a funny shaped bottle of detergent with a bunch of films that you now no longer want to go into your wash knowing they are no longer filled with detergent! Yes, a little disheartening =) However, I'd like to offer potential solutions. I start by saying that the convenience is not in the fact that there is film around each one...the convenience is in the fact that the servings are pre-measured. Fact is that many people do rather daunting work these days. I know Tide understands that, you wash our clothes! But when you get off of work after staring at a screen all day, you just want to relax your eyes, not look for small markings on the inside of a lid, not overpour and make a mess to have to clean! Simple is what you want. Think of an Exacto-Pour used to measure shots...if you were to upgrade your bottle for an easier carry (pod case is nice) and have a spout that would pre-measure each "wash" at the push of a button...Perfecto! Just a suggestion...Tide is still now and will always be my only brand! Thank you for being durable, reliable, safe and economic!
Just started to use the Tide pods & I absolutely love them. They have made my laundry duties so convenient, and they launder better than anything else. Our clothes seem cleaner, fresher, brighter, and softer, than ever before. Something happened to me since switching to theses magical pods, I now love doing the laundry, miracle.So love this product I am telling everyone!!!!
My husband is a marine mechanic and between gear oil and brake clean his cloths are pretty funky. I have always used Tide and when the pods came out I fell in love with Tide all over again! I personally see that the pods clean his clothes better than liquid Tide. I have not had any of the pods not disolve, I use a top load machine. Now, I know you cannot add before clothes in a front loader, but since I am using a top load I add the pods then start machine filling before I add the clothes. I really really like the pods and I hope they keep this product around!
After using this product several times. I also noticed the sticky residue pieces on my clothing. I thought at first it was because of cold water, but it does the same thing with hot water. I love Tide detergent, but am very disappointed in Pods. I won't be using these again unless Tide acknowledges and corrects the problem.
I get that scent is a very subjective and personal thing however, I don't get the negative reviews on the scent. I will admit, I specifically bought the "Refreshing Breeze," because when I smelled the other scent in the store, it wasn't my favorite - maybe that's the scent that everyone is complaining about. The "Refreshing Breeze," on the other hand is AWESOME! I love how clean and fresh my laundry smells! I can't say how the cleaning performance compares to the more expensive versions of Tide as I never really used those due to the expense and lack of lasting fresh scent. I can say that the cleaning power is comparable to the Gain I was previously buying and has the only scent (at the current price) capable of converting me to a Tide user! If the prices are ever comparable to original Tide, I'll switch back. I am curious to know if the formula does, indeed, contain baking soda. I didn't see a response to a previous comment from "Curious" and I, too, would like to know. In the meantime, thanks for a great product at a better price!
I have had the same "disappointing" issues with the tide pods as most people here. I simply won't buy them again (problem solved). What I'm really upset about is the LAME responses from Tide Customer service, especially this one, "product was extensively tested". As far as I'm concerned and most importantly YOUR customers are the real testers and the determining factor if your product gets a thumbs up or a thumbs down, as of now my thumb is point South. I hope to see you LISTEN and take YOUR customers and product more serious.
i got tide for good price from walmart and shipping is amazing, tide pods works well, not heavy,its small pices which, does the big loads at the laundry, you just toss them with the cloths.works well for me.
I have been using Tide Pods for the last 6 months and highly recommend to friends. My husband is a mechanic and tide is the only detergent that gets his clothes clean. I enjoy the pods because I have limited space for detergent bottles. The tide pod container is easier to dispose of then the large detergent bottles. I have never noticed any stains left from pods.
stain clothes, don't clean thoroughly, expensive. A product that is badly executed. I have only used Tide in my home, and I am so disappointed in the general performance of this product. I am no longer a Tide user because of the damage these pods caused to my clothing.
Tide is the best detergent on the market, in my opinion. I really like this HE powder. It does a good job in getting the clothes clean.
I have been consistently trying to lead a greener life. I'm using less, buying less and throwing away less. I recycle everything possible. My latest step on my green quest has been to clean up (haha, pun intended) my laundry habits. After decades of being a Tide devotee, I opted to try the Seventh Generation liquid laundry soap. My results were...
I'm into Tide, always have been. I grew up poor and still am poor, at 54 years old, but have always spent the extra money on Tide. I was very excited to check out the new pod but please believe this consumer when i tell you the pod does not dissolve good, it is destroying clothes and it is hurting the Tide name. Please dont let that happen.
I bought these so my sons had little to worry about in college, Toss 1 in wash on cold & your done. Too much worrying how much liquid to put in stain stuff etc.... These make it easier for them 1 pod 1 medium load perfect match!
I bought the Tide pods a week ago and the first time I used them when washing new clothes from christmas. Bad idea!! my daughters new american eagle jeans are ruined because the plastic pod did not disolve and it melted to her jeans. they now have a hard plastic and blue stain on them.
I do NOT use tide products EVER. I received a sample of Tide Pods and LOVED it! The smell was amazing after washing and lasted for days. Immediately I bought a huge amount of Tide Pods. After drying the clothes, there is no smell what so ever like the sample pack. It seems to me they put more ingredients in the sample pack so they can sell more and I am highly disappointed that such a well known company would do this. I am NEVER buying Tide products again!!!
I do NOT use tide products EVER. I received a sample of Tide Pods and LOVED it! The smell was amazing after washing and lasted for days. Immediately I bought a huge amount of Tide Pods. After drying the clothes, there is no smell what so ever like the sample pack. It seems to me they put more ingredients in the sample pack so they can sell more and I am highly disappointed that such a well known company would do this. I am NEVER buying Tide products again!!!
I do NOT use tide products EVER. I received a sample of Tide Pods and LOVED it! The smell was amazing after washing and lasted for days. Immediately I bought a huge amount of Tide Pods. After drying the clothes, there is no smell what so ever like the sample pack. It seems to me they put more ingredients in the sample pack so they can sell more and I am highly disappointed that such a well known company would do this. I am NEVER buying Tide products again!!!
I've been using Tide for a long time now. It has always given me good results. The the amount and price at Walmart, you can't beat that. I can't find a price this around where i live.
I like to use cold water in order to reduce my carbon footprint and Tide cleans just as well in cold water as warm. I also like the scent and the scrubber cap that allows me to treat tough stains. Thanks tide! The price is also great on Walmart.
I was excited to buy Tide Vivid because not only do I use Tide, but because of the price. But when I received the product, it was Tide with Bleach Alternative, not Tide Vivid. I'm still going to use it because I paid for it but I won't buy it from Walmart again
I have been doing laundry for 45 years and I have used many different products. I became a fan of Tide about 25 years ago and have stayed with them ever since. I have tried the many varieties of their laundry detergents and have liked every one of them but when I tried Tide with Acti-Lift, I have to say, I was blown away by how great it worked....
I have used almost every laundry detergent there is! When I was growing up, Tide was the only brand my mom used for laundry detergent...but once I got married, I realized that it is the most expensive laundry detergent! So I expanded my horizons and spent my money on the other brands to save money...but I ended up wasting my money because my...
Just Love Tide Pods they smell so good do a great job of cleaning and 77 will last me for at least three months I am 64 and live alone don't drive so it is a pain to run out of laundry soap this is perfect and will buy again from Amazon was so easy.
I ordered these for the first time this week while in the middle of a spring cleaning/find the easiest and most efficient products out there spree, and honestly, this was the best choice I made. Clothes come out cleaner than when using bottled detergents, and the smell is better too. There's absolutely no mess, and I've cleared up so much room in my laundry by not having a need for bulky bottles. While the price can be intimidating initially, it figures out to only a few cents per load, and the pack of 72 is enough to last me over three and a half months, which makes it a great deal. I've already put in an order for a second tub of these!
This smelled great in the bottle but horrible when in the machine! I have used various liquid Tides for the past few years and suddenly started smelling a horrible sewer smell while washing. I figured it had something to do with my machine or pipes so I had a maintenance guy look at it and he couldn't find anything wrong. I ran bleach through, it vinegar through it and even the Tide washing machine cleaners through it and NOTHING made it go away. We were questioning if it was time to just get a new machine. As a last resort I tried a different detergent and low and behold, the smell was gone!! I don't know what it is about this particular style/scent but it was utterly horrible and made my whole house smell like a sewer. Will never use and again and I will question any other Tide products.
I'm so disappointed with the way they changed the scent of total care!! I used to love the old formula, it was light and airy. Once I ran out of my old bottle I purchased total care again thinking it would be the same and to my unpleasant surprise the smell OVERWHELMED me! My husband and I are not happy about this! I am not longer interested in making total care my detergent any more, I'm going to have to find a different brand that is as lightly scented as this one used to be.
Smells great, works great, and a good deal!! Get it!! Love the added Downy too - makes clothes so fresh smelling and clean! Will buy again!
I was never a Tide user (because of the price) until I discovered Tide Febreze Sport. It smelled SO good and my laundry smelled amazing! However, the last bottle I bought actually smells terrible! Almost like gas or something! I thought maybe it was the bottle I got, so I checked another bottle when I went to the store, and it smelled the same. What happened to that amazing smell?? It is absolutely NOT the same Tide I have been buying. If it's a new formula, I won't buy Tide anymore and will go back to using Gain.
We tried using tide liquid, and other brand liquid detergents when we first bought our front-loading HE washer years ago, they stink. Really, they break down, or feed some fungi, or otherwise cause a really bad, stale, chemical smell that permeates all your clothing if you don't take them out immediately and God help you if you leave the washer closed overnight. Since switching to powder, we don't have that problem. The problem we HAVE is finding the HE powdered detergent locally. Really. In metro-DC/suburban Maryland. When we can, it's more expensive than these smaller, easier to handle boxes from Amazon, and they ship "free." No driving around place to place to see who has it in stock and all that. Buy some.
I purchased a bottle of this due to the great price. I usually don't purchase TIDE due to the purchase price. BUT THIS STUFF IS WONDERFUL. GREAT PRICE AND THE SCENT IS WONDERFUL> My husband of 35 years is even commenting how wonderful his t-shirts and sheets smell. LOVE IT
These pods can leave purple stains on white clothing. The first time it happened I blamed my husband for leaving a pen in a pocket, but when this happened again I knew it had to be something else. Suspecting the pods, I checked other sites and found that many other people have had the same problem. On the clothing that has gone through the dryer, these stains will not come out. Believe me, I tried. I will use the rest that I have for dark clothes, then find a new detergent. The reviews complaining about this problem have been online for over a year, so I am sure Tide is aware of the problem. That they haven't done anything to fix it is enough reason for me to switch detergents. Several of my husband's dress shirts were stained and ruined.
I bought the pods for my daughter at college, thought it would be easier for her, it was, until.... she got white splotches on her favorite pair of jeans and her new towels! She was very upset. It's a great idea, just may need a little more work :)
I always use tide liquid and never have a problem, but I bought the tide pods because I was moving and knew I needed to travel with detergent.. anyways my boyfriend and I both did laundry on separate occasions and both times left with stains. I, of course, thought he used them wrong and I did a load of clothes a week later and ruined half of our things... I hate this product and will never use it again. id rather pay and use the liquid than have more of my nice expensive work clothes ruined. I honestly do not think I will ever use tide again. Don't buy these people, you will regret it.
I always use tide liquid and never have a problem, but I bought the tide pods because I was moving and knew I needed to travel with detergent.. anyways my boyfriend and I both did laundry on separate occasions and both times left with stains. I, of course, thought he used them wrong and I did a load of clothes a week later and ruined half of our things... I hate this product and will never use it again. id rather pay and use the liquid than have more of my nice expensive work clothes ruined. I honestly do not think I will ever use tide again. Don't buy these people, you will regret it.
I always use tide liquid and never have a problem, but I bought the tide pods because I was moving and knew I needed to travel with detergent.. anyways my boyfriend and I both did laundry on separate occasions and both times left with stains. I, of course, thought he used them wrong and I did a load of clothes a week later and ruined half of our things... I hate this product and will never use it again. id rather pay and use the liquid than have more of my nice expensive work clothes ruined. I honestly do not think I will ever use tide again. Don't buy these people, you will regret it.
This product arrived just in time as we've been doing a ton of spring cleaning and washing all the heavy blankets and flannel sheets to put away for the season, not to mention all the stray socks, pajamas, towels, etc. that we've found under the beds and behind the dressers. This Tide product comes with Febreze with a mild spring-fresh scent. The scent is very mild - I have to hold the clothes right up to my nose to smell anything different. But it is a pleasant, refreshing scent that will hopefully help to keep the mustiness away while everything is stored for five or six months. The packaging claims that the "freshness lasts 3x longer". In small letter it clarifies "than original Tide". I'm not sure what exactly that means. How does one measure "freshness" or how long it lasts? Does this mean we can wear our clothes three times longer without re-washing them? I can't say I notice any particular difference as I wear the clothes throughout the day - by the end of the day I still feel rather sticky, grimy and smelly. I've always felt that Tide detergent is superior at getting clothes clean and this product is no exception. My girls manage to cover themselves in dirt, sand, paint, clay and/or any number of other fun substances nearly every day, yet few traces are left after washing. I don't know that I would pay much extra just to get what amounts to a very mild fresh scent, but I've been pleased with this product and would buy it again so long as the price is reasonable.
Probably one of the best detergents out there for cleaning ability, consistency of scent and consistency of the product. No matter what, Tide cleans with (generally) less detergent needed than the competition (who may recommend half a cap when a full one is actually necessary to get the job done right). My only gripe is the price. Guess we are paying for the commercials but this stuff routinely runs nearly twice as much as the lesser varieties from equally large companies and in a tough economy that hurts. However, there is no denying this is one of the best detergents. Clothes do come out clean and fresh smelling and that earns at least 4 stars.
Looking over the other reviews, there appears to be confusion/mixing over exactly which Tide product people are reviewing (this is not the reviewers' fault, but rather the the Amazon system is displaying all of these new Tide reviews together, regardless of the varying Tide formula). Anyway, my review is for the 92 oz jug of my absolute favorite, "Tide + Febreze Freshness - Sport Active Fresh" laundry detergent (orange jug with the green lid). This is a liquid laundry detergent containing scent agents. There is no indication or claim that it operates as a laundry "fabric softener". I received this bottle at no personal monetary cost via the Amazon Vine program (please don't hate me for that, I give honest reviews and call 'em like I see' em). That said, our household are no strangers to Tide. Tide and competitor Wisk were recently evaluated as two top-rated detergents by Consumer Reports, and I commonly buy only those brands, usually choosing between the two based on price and promotions at time of purchase . This Tide + Febreze product delivers the usual cleaning performance of Tide, which is very, very good. Cleans thoroughly without tearing up your fabrics and bleaching out the colors. Cold water performance is just about as good as hot water. Tide tends to be pricier than the competition, but "you get what you pay for" comes into play. So much for cleaning power, which is great, so how about this fresh scent claim? . . . . Before I share my "freshness" verdict, let me share the situation in our home. In recent years my wife has become increasingly disabled by MS, and a few years ago I took over the laundry duties. At first, due to lack of experience, I needed a little coaching, which my wife has been exceedingly generous about sharing with me . . . sorting, folding, hanging, water levels/temperatures, softeners and scents, etc. In pursuit of mastering the laundry room, I've tried any number of detergent/fabric softener brands, scents and combinations. I've had a few minor successes as well as many complaints, especially regarding the scent/freshness of the finished laundry. My recent use of this Tide + Febreze Freshness produced the strongest and most immediate compliments from my wife that I've experienced to date. Not strongly scented. In fact not really a "scent" at all with this Sport Active version, but rather the fragrance impression of fresh laundry dried out in the sun and breeze. No kidding. My wife thought the same thing. Truly, to get this level of thumbs-up from my wife, something special is going on here. Also, Tide claims to incorporate "motion-activated dual-scent pearls" that function to maintain freshness three times longer. Is that true? I don't know. But I know for sure that the stack of folded laundry I'm delivering to my wife is fresher than we've experienced since I've been doing this laundry thing. It does work and I'll be back for more. Superior laundry detergent for both cleaning and freshness. I've also tried and reviewed the "Spring and Renewal" formula, with the lavender lid. It's good . . . BUT . . . we much prefer this Sport Active Fresh. It really does smell like laundry dried outdoors. Our new favorite, by a mile.
This is a great bundle to get your laundry room started. - Tide Pods Smells great, cleans well and I love using them. Drop one/two in the laundry and your ready to go. I'm hooked and not changing back to powers or liquid. - Downy Scent Booster I've only used this a few times and only on towels, sheets and blankets for the "long lasting scent". My linen closet says that the scent is lasting a long time, but other than that, I was unsure of what this was for. My guess is that it's going to give longevity to the pleasant scent, which so far, it has. - Bounce Dryer Sheets Another product I've used for years and am very happy with. Clothes are soft and smell great with a sheet or two. I sometimes use the Whitmor 6187-2419 Dryer Balls Set of 2, so when I do, I can't use the dryer sheets, as they just get snagged and cover the balls. This is a great set to give you all that you'll need, save maybe a pre-treater, if needed. The Pods do a remarkable job, but for certain whites, I need to soak and use OxiClean Versatile Stain Remover 14 lbs to get dish towles, cloths napkins and other whites their whitest.
I am a frequent user of these products and really enjoy them. I love the pods so my 5yo can help do laundry. I've tried other brands of fabric softener sheets and always come back to Bounce. I typically only use the scent booster for loads of things that will sit around for a bit like towels and sheets. We are moving soon and once all our household goods are packed, it could be awhile before they're unpacked, so this was the perfect solution--one small box with everything I need to do laundry until we find everything and unbox it! It would also be a great solution for people who travel or are living elsewhere temporarily. It's a little expensive at full price, but I'd do it at the Subscribe & Save option.
I buy it in bulk. It's terrific.
I love using Tide Pods and Walmart always has them for a good price. Only thing is sometimes a few of them are mashed when they arrive so they get stuck together and when you try to pull them apart they break open.
We've used Pods with NO PROBLEMS until the last package. Now, we're having clothes ruined by undissolved Pods! We're washing the same way we always have. Something's gone wrong in production. Please figure it out. Thanks.
I would recommend this product because it's a great price and a great product and was glad to find it online!
I was not really curious about the "pod" format for laundry detergent, and decided to buy this for the simple reason that it was the cheapest "price per load" (at least as loads are labelled on the Tide packaging) of any Tide product either in my local stores or on Amazon (note: I bought this with subscribe and save and am an Amazon Mom member, so I saved 20%). I have a front load HE washer that has precision dispense for detergent, so the convenience of not measuring detergent was a moot point for me. I was hoping this would perform at least as well as Tide liquid. Turns out that it does even better. I have now used the pods on regular washes, cold water washes, delicate washes, and sanitize washes. These include various load sizes, temperatures, and spin speeds. I even did one really large load that I debated using two pods for... I went with one and was not disappointed. Our clothes smell better than they ever have, and my sons little "lovey" (one of those mini blanket things with a bear face) that he chews on while he sleeps finally doesn't stink. It has been washed regularly throughout its life, but it had developed a deeply embedded smell that just could not be erased... or at least that's what I thought until now. Finally Pat the Bear doesn't smell like the year of toddler spit he has been absorbing. I have not had any issues with pouches not dissolving or with blue or purple streaks on my clothes (yes, I have used these on a white load). I have found them delightful and easy to use (they have a really interesting squishy feel that I take childish pleasure in) and haven't had any issues what so ever. I have forgotten once or twice to put the pod in first, but with my front loader, it was pretty easy to just shove it in the bottom all the way to the back and bury it under the clothes. I didn't notice any difference in results of the wash when this happened vs when I put the pod in first. Over all, I am very pleasantly surprised with this product. As to the potential negative of not getting to "adjust" the amount of detergent based on load size or dirty-ness, I guess I am just not as masterful as other laundry-doers. I don't really think it's that realistic for a person to think they are adjusting things to the perfect level every time... I think that if they are saving money over these pods, it's probably because they are getting by on less detergent than recommended... and that might work well for them, but I will say that having clothes that really smell amazing coming out of the wash is worth the small price difference I might be losing by having to use "a whole pod" for even a small load. And on the other side of that, I know that the large load I did last week, I would have probably added extra detergent, but just one pod took care of it with no problem. Also, as another person has pointed out, and I totally agree, these things would be very attractive to kids to play with and/or eat (seriously, the texture is somewhat delightful), so they do need to be kept up and out of reach, but that is no different than what I did with my other detergent anyway.
After discovering dishwashing pods a few years back and realizing what a time saver and sometimes money saver they could be, I really thought that someone should do the same with laundry detergent. I have always hated measuring laundry detergent. Even with the recommendations on the bottle, I would still be unsure of whether I put too much or too little so I just started tossing liquid detergent in without even measuring anymore. I only do about 3 loads of laundry a week and I was going through a "60 load" bottle of Tide every 6 weeks easy. After seeing the Tide Pods commercial I ran to Target and bought a tub of these right away. I bought the first tub of 62 pods over 3 months ago and although it was priced higher than a bottle of liquid Tide, I knew that it would take a product like this for me to finally save money on detergent. With very heavy loads of laundry or heavily soiled loads, I will add an extra pod just in case, and everything smells fresh as can be. I have seen no difference in the cleanliness and smell of my clothes since switching from liquid to pods. This tub will last me at least 4.5 months. I don't think that any bottle of liquid Tide, even when measured as recommended by the manufacturer could ever last 4.5 months. I wash in only cold water and sometimes I watch the pod dissolve before I put in my clothes just because I'm curious to see how it works. I am so thrilled!!! This pod is easy to use, so attractive (which is a bonus), and my favorite new product in a very long time.
I have been using the pods for about a year now and i love it...it takes all the stain off my children's clothe and cleans very well...leave my clothe smelling great.....i normally buy the big pack and last me for about 3 month and when i use to use liquid every 2 week i would have to buy...so its a money saver..which its great when you have 3 kids...i would recommend this product to everyone....
This blue, pleasant smelling liquid is perfect for washing my clothes in a washing machine. It smells nice, is a smooth, flowing liquid, and has a blue color. I have to be careful not to use too much or else it turns my dryer drum blue, too! How come it doesn't make my clothes blue? that is most likely a question for the ages. The 2-pack is real nice cause it's like getting two for one! Also, the price on Amazon seems like a lot less than my local grocery store. I have bought this 2-pack twice, which means I have purchased 4 bottles of Tide HE Original Scent Liquid Laundry detergent. Buying from Amazon is also better than getting from my local grocery store because I have much less risk of running into people I do not like, ie: my neighbors. They don't know that it's laundry day and I ran out of clean pants to wear unless I also ran out of Tide HE Original Scent Liquid Laundry detergent and had to go to the store where they have a sign that says no shirt, no shoes, no service. Although it does not say it on the sign, the cops told me that wearing pants was implied, whatever that means. Tide HE Original Scent Liquid Laundry detergent has done a great job of cleaning my clothes, supporting my lifestyle as a hermit, and keeping me out of jail. Way to go Proctor and Gambit.
I've used Tide for a long time. I'm always happy with the cleanliness after a load of laundry. I also receive compliments on how fresh my clothes smell. What I like the best about tide, is its ability spot clean stains. If I have a tough stain that wont come out, I'll take an old toothbrush and rub some tide directly on the stain. Sometimes I'll add Oxiclean to it as well. I'll let it sit for up to a day, then throw it in the wash and the stain is gone 99% of the time. I'm subtracting 1 star because Tide is always over price. I always wait for a sale to stock up. Also, detergent companies could easily remove more water from their product resulting in a more concentrated product where we would use less detergent and save a ton on product packing. I think the environment would smile at that suggestion.
I normally don't order this kind of product, but I found a online coupon and couldn't pass up the price. Kind of nice to have it arrive on the doorstep and not have to remember to get it at the store. Good quality product, cleans well and smells nice.
Smelly Hubbys? Loathe that stinky bath towels? Having to deal with a bed wetter? Daily Gymnastic to Yoga and what a major pain it is to wash "STINKY GARMENTS TO TOWELS AND LINEN". No more wanting to scream "THIS THING STINKS AFTER I'VE WASHED THIS TWICE AND IT'S BEEN IN FABRIC SOFTENER AND FABRIC DRYER SHEETS, AND ALL IT'S DOING IS RUINING EVERYTHING AND MY EGO!"Not anymore, before I obtained a High Efficiency Washer and Dryer; I was using this in a regular Washer and Dryer. The only thing here of importance to keep in mind is, "KNOW YOUR WATER SYSTEM"! If you are using a Built-In Water Softener - you would not use very much of this and if your water is exceeding very hard and including laden with add-in chemicals (like mine) - with fluoride, chloride, and who the heck knows what; it tastes terrible just drinking out of the faucet; yet, we have to wash our clothes in this stuff - now please someone - how is fluoride going to improve my garments to anything in the wash except destroying it, it doesn't make my teeth any whiter ... as we WEAR IT ON US, not in our mouths...This stuff, in spite of this obnoxious water conditions we have here, yet, a little bit goes a long ways; and given to that statement .... one does not have to sit there and wash their stuff to death either and ruining it! I even have my washer on the short wash, use a little fabric softener in rinse; and once out of the dryer- the clothes smells awesome if they were not hung outside on the clothesline to dry. Either way, the smell lingers on for days, leaving your clothes smelling clean and fresh!So go ahead and get muddy, dirty, sweaty, stinky - this Tide with Febreze HE can handle it easily without any trouble at all!PS: I rarely ever use bleach; but here's a secret that Dry Cleaners don't want you to know about (it would put them out of business if you knew about this) .... ring around the collars, blood, rust, grease, etc - they have a bottle of ammonia and water mixture, for delicate garments, they actually use cheap brand of Windex and pour small soap or Borax Mule (if it is White or Light Colored) make a paste if it is a real bad stain (note: some "Dry Clean" items can be washed read the labels, of the material - just do not put them in the dryer but rather hang or fold to dry or lay flat) and scrub the area gently. As for mud, grease, ring around the neck collars, cuffs, rust, they just spray it on and toss in into the wash load (colors or whites); if it is really bad, they will pour straight ammonia (not on 100% polyester), lightly brushing it and toss it into the wash - if it is jeans or heavier items (never use this on corduroy - take it to the cleaners or put soap on it and brush in the direction of the flow first to see if it gets the stain out, do not attempt to use chemicals; and dryers are their worse enemies - it is okay to pull them inside out if the stain was removed and put them in the dryer in low heat for a short time and pull them out while still damp and hang them to dry) except micro-suede, leather or any type of leather (including hides and fur), antiques, heirlooms, vintage items (unless you have the knowledge and know how - use at own risk) - only those items should be done by the Professionals. As for the heavier items like jeans to multiple layered garments (some have zippers / velcro / or buttons were you can separate them like sectional pieces - e.g. men's blazers, jackets). It does pay to invest in purchasing a small steamer or a large steamer as they are quite handy not just for clothing and getting tough stains out but around the house too. Invest if you don't have any or snatch as many as you can on old wooden men's jacket hangers including those for pants (just make sure the bar latch is wood - not metal, the one you hang the pant on) - it will work for women's dresses, suits to men's 3 piece outfits including ties. Even silk can be washed, just read the labelQUESTION: I have washed my husband's 2 blazers and his 2 two piece suit and 9 ties, now how do I dry or iron them, thee jackets have silk linings inside and I thought was strange but its half silk in the arms; they had been hung up to dry on the wooden hangers as well as the pants, likewise the ties too. 4 ties are also silk, well, one is 80 percent silk and 20 percent ? the label is partially gone and I have no steamer. Do I iron?ANSWER: Use your hair blow dryer up in each sleeves first holding it down to maintain its shape; once it begins its shape, turn the air down to cool and do the other arm in same manner; now blow dry the inside of jacket. On ironing board, keep iron setting on low, much of the jackets with silk or polyester lining in middle will have a center, that part is to be folded over. Lift the upper top, where it was sewn, it will show you if it goes to the right or left and fold in that direction and it is better to use fabric tape cut in small piece on the bottom to hold it in alignment; with the hanger holding the ironing board --- pull that silk lining until it is perfectly straight and with that tiny fabric tape at the end of the crease on bottom part hold that tight and run that iron fast. You have now created the perfect "Pressor's Crease". Some jackets will have folds ignore them and do not attempt to iron them, instead run the iron over the silk only (or polyester) side of the inside of the jacket (Professionals call it the backside). If collars are wrinkled or needs ironing, iron it from inside out (at first it may seem to be intimidating but it is really easy)....It is easier to start with the upper collar first, starting with the center and go right and then center and go left, then flip it over if you have a front whether single, double or even triple breasted layer, it is fine to iron going from inside of jacket going out with the exception of those that have "V" or are Tuxedos; the V's are ironed from V and downwards and stopped and left undone, they are never fully pressed. Tuxes are never pressed on the outside, instead they are pressed from the backside if they have to be. Some people will spray water and use a blow dryer just to get wrinkles out but I do not recommend this because it will leave a stain which won't come out (the irony of all things).As for ties: you press them from the back side just above the triangle and upwards to near center of middle and stop, and believe it or not, once done, remove tie, and give it a "bull whip" slap and then run the hair dryer through the middle major hole on bottom of tie with high heat to get the seam from iron out of there and stop. If too many creases were made around the neckline from the daily folding of tie, it is perfectly fine to iron over it; it would look so much better and easier to dress up and have a better appearance.QUESTION: I BOUGHT A STEAMER NOW, I AM SO EXCITED, NOW I CAN DO MY DRY CLEANING AND SUITS, DRESSES, JACKETS AND ALL, BUT HOW DO I DO IT?ANSWER: After you wash them, hang them on the wooden hangers, the only dress or skirt you would find this really strange if you own a skirt or a half dress that is a "BROOM SKIRT / DRESS" = this one is treated differently, should be the first one out of the wash before it gets dry as you want those creases in there.Here's how to do it: (If it's a dress with a top, hang dress top on hanger, if it is a skirt disregard the hanger for now); roll this up like you are going to make a wad or "tye-dye", just keep rolling it up, if it is long, that's okay, if it is sectional, then tie one end into a knot literally, and proceed to rolling the next layer into a wad and tying it into a not until you literally have this "Broom Skirt or Brook Skirt Bottom of Dress" looking like a pathetic wad of a knotted ball. That is EXACTLY what you want it to be; some women / men (who helps around the house) will go so far as to take those plastic grocery bags and tuck them in. Use a Pin or Clothespin if it is a skirt and hang on a hanger but do not stretch the elastic! Let it dry over night; then remove this "knotted wad" that was created and if it is still damp, let it hang to dry; resist the temptation to use hair dryer or steamer (unless it's the top part - one piece set) which needs attending to. You will be pleasantly surprised and amazed how much you've saved $$$ from the Cleaners.STEAMER'S SO MUCH FUN that your iron will become jealous! Even those than cannot go into the dryer at all whatsoever - there's your friend ... Mr. Steamer ... especially for the working man / woman / student who just does not have the time; this is so quick and easy.Hang it up, like above the door rim (door opened of course) and fill the steamer up and while you're getting dressed (yes, this works for slips, delicate items, ties, fragile items like scarves, to even shoes that will bring forth a nice shine after a quick steam and a wipe. Just hold that garment, whether it's stiff or loose, and let the steamer do its job by working from top to bottom. Always remember to spray away from people and pets and spray first before spraying on fabrics in case of "spitting" if you happened to put too much water in there. Boom - Bang - you're done and ready to wear and go; just remember to turn it off, unplugging, and press the steam button on to let the steam all out or steam your mirrors, faucet, sink clean while its letting all its hot air out and remove the top and carefully dump the hot water out; and set aside to dry and you're out the door looking handsome and sharp looking "hunka-huka" man; or pretty and eye-raising sharp lady at work!For sure - you won't be taken to the Cleaners with Tide and knowing all these secrets and then some ...
I'm delighted with this product (have been for years) and since it's been discontinued in stores, I decided to splurge and order it online. The scent is light and fresh, makes the laundry room smell great, and Tide is a quality product. No other laundry detergent is equal to it. I was pleasantly surprised by the low shipping cost, since I ordered 4 bottles. I've paid more for shipping much lighter items. Delivery was prompt. I would recommend this detergent to anyone. Those who have tried it in the past need no convincing.
I am totally a Gain Liquid girl. My normal wash routine includes Gain liquid, washer crystals, then expensive dryer sheets.....UNTIL I decided to try this Lavender Tide! I have an HE top loading machine. The box says to use the Tide HE for the HE machines, but I use this and have had no issues at all. It also makes my clothing smell so lovely! I don't even use the washer crystals anymore. I also just use the store brand dryer sheets now with great results! Tide Lavender washes out the ick the first time, works well with hot, warm or cold water, rinses out of the clothes very well and makes everything smell great. The smell even lasts after the dryer! I also like it that there are so many loads in this Tide box. I only use about 1/2 to 3/4 of the recommended amount of soap for each load (due to the HE washer). It seems to be working for me, but I have heard that you need to try it and see what works for you because it depends on if your water is hard, soft, etc. I am planning on purchasing more of this item tomorrow. Oh, and it is way less to purchase it here than it is at my local Walmart.
We used cloth diapers for two years and tried a ton of different detergents. I kept going back to Tide as the best. Our cloth diapers still needed to be stripped often and I was always afraid that the scent and other chemicals in the detergent would cause a rash on my daughter's sensitive skin. I would have preferred a more natural cleaning method, but with our hard water this detergent worked better than the other detergents we used. I absolutely hated how expensive it is and used to buy it in bulk with coupons as often as possible. Luckily we are a military family and have access to a commissary, and I didn't have to pay marked up department or grocery store prices. That really helped. With our regular laundry, this works better than anything we have ever used. Nothing faded, everything got perfectly clean, and smelled fresh for a long time. But after we were done with cloth diapers, we switched to a less expensive (and not as great) detergent. With a small child on a budget to save for retirement, we cannot afford to use expensive detergents if we don't absolutely have to.
When you can find it, it's much more expensive. Ever since buying a HE front-loading washer about ten years ago we've been buying this when it comes on sale at the local grocer's. I noticed that Amazon.com is selling just about everything imaginable about a year ago and now do about 99% of al my shopping here, why not for detergent? The subscription price is about what we were paying ten years ago and this stuff works. We discovered early on that the liquid detergents smell BAD. The residue anyway, especially if you leave it overnight. Often we'd have to rewash everything to get the sour/decayed smell out of the clothes. We found out this is COMMON. A popular nationally recognized talk show host spoke about it years back. Sure, you can use another, additional product, a washer cleaner powder, but we found the powder residue doesn't stink up the washer or our clothes and try to stock up on this when we can. We regularly keep at least a couple years' supply on hand. It'll cake up but just stick a fork in it and it'll break up easily. Don't know why it's not carried more widely, even the DCA/commissary doesn't carry it, but they sell HE washers at the PX. Go figure. Anyway, this stuff works, we like it a LOT, and as with many other things, AMAZON has the best price.
Took the leaking bottle and the other damaged item back to local store to return and repurchase. Will not probably order liquids on line again.
I've used the tide liquid laundry boost with good results for several years, but it's getting hard to find, so I tried the pods. Horrible. They don't melt in cold water, and they leave white residue all over my clothes. I will not buy them ever again.
This has a nice smell, and works well. I don't think it'll ever work as well as putting in actual fabric softener as an extra step. But it saves a step if you want to do a wash that doesn't need to be super soft. Also, I'd suggest buying at a supermarket rather than here as the price isn't great and is a bit misleading.
I highly recommend this product in this fragrance! It's a great detergent for everyday laundry needs. I will continue to use Tide Total Care for my work clothes, and so glad there is a new Tide variant for someone like me who uses a less expensive for my everyday laundry needs!!
My baby's clothes are consistently stain free and bright and white. I have tried many other methods and this is the only one that gets out the stains. Not even pretreating works like this. I have tried oxy powder, and while it does whiten, it didn't get the stains out. So, I was left with a ultra white shirt with a big staihe on it. With this product, I get the whitening and brightening of oxy plus unbelievable stain removal. I really don't know how I would deal with the baby food stain mess otherwise, Nothing else works, and not even chlorine bleach gets the whites as white, plus this product can be used on colors so you dont have to wash the whites alone. The best!
I bought this a little less than a year ago when it was on sale and I'm only reaching the end of the first bottle (while doing about 5 loads a month). It's perfect for someone who is living on their own with a limited budget. The price itself is cheaper than at grocery stores since they normally push the smaller bottles. I think I cross checked price per ounce at 3 different places before making the purchase. You'll be glad you bought in bulk when you save all that money and you don't have to worry about running out for at least a year. I was originally concerned that I would still have to buy fabric softener but it has never actually been an issue. All my clothes come out of the wash smelling great and without static. I will admit that the bottle is huge in size so it can be a pain to bring it to the laundrymat. Not so much of an issue when you have a laundry machine at home but it may be something to consider otherwise. An easy way to get around this is by pouring the contents into a water bottle for easier transportation.
This detergent cleans clothes and has an awesome smell. Hope tide doesn't discontinue this kind of laundry detergent.
These make washing laundry a breeze, I love the scent and this is a great deal for 72 loads of laundry...when we use detergent powder or liquid we go through it so fast...this makes it easy..you just throw in the pod with your clothes and you are set. No measuring at all....I also use the snuggle dryer sheet...no static for us. I am newly disabled and it is so helpful. MUST BUY I have two of them lasts me a very long time. :-)
Always use Tide .Its tougher than most and without using a lot. I love the stuff because it has a clean scent, not overbearing, which makes it great for sensitive skin & allergy prone people.
I bought this for first time over 3 months ago and love it. It doesn't take much to get your clothes clean nor is it that expensive. Great Product.
(sorry, that's not the best rhyme) this is great detergent! it came along at the right time because my home washer doesn't always let me in raise the lid at the rinse cycle. so, now that i have a product like this, i don't have to worry about missing that cycle. my clothes smell great after the washing and the dry cycles are done. and the scent lasts for a good while after i put them on--without being overpowering. it's definitely on my shopping list for the next trip to the supermarket!
I usually purchase Tide with Bleach alternative, but I saw this product and price and decided to give it a try. It didn't remove the dirt any where close to my other Tide product. I followed directions on the bottle. Should I have used more product? I'm going back to the store to buy my Tide with bleach alternative. It's worth the extra money to have my wash done right the first time!
Tide pods are great, but the product is still very expensive compared to other tide detergents.
I have been SO happy with this Tide product which is liquid detergent contained in little washer sized pacs! It is lighter than liquid Tide and more convenient than powdered Tide. If you are using a laundromat, no need to bring the whole package of detergent - only as many pods as you intend to do loads of laundry. At home, can just load the washer and then toss in a pod. The detergent pod dissolves in the washer and there is no detergent residue on clothing or washer. Clothes come out very clean and bright! I recommend that you try it and see how delighted you will be.
I am extremely unhappy with the product. Why? Out of 4 loads of clothing, the pod did not finish dissolving on three of the loads..leaving a wad of undissolved pod and purple coloring in my clothing. For the last load, a load of ALL whites...the color brighter which is purple did NOT dissolve and left PURPLE all over my clothing. I called Tide, hoping something easy could remedy this disaster. They only thing I can do is to spot treat each purple area with hot water and rubbing alcohol and repeat until it is gone. They are "fairly certain" this will work. I have re-washed all the clothing with Borax, in hot water on the longest setting my washer has including extra soak and extra rinse. I have done what Tide advise, after two and a half hours of spot treating my clothes remain ruined. Not quite as purple as before, but rather a lavender color. For military "under" whites, this is still unacceptable. AVOID this product!!!!!!!! Buyer Beware!!!
So, would buy Tide again but only directly from the store on site. Hope this helps : )
This was my first time using Boost and I love it.The whites & colors look terrific and it smells good. I have sensitive skin & didn`t break out. Its a winner!
I purchased a smaller package of these some time back while traveling and liked the convenience. I normally use Tide Powder for HE machines and very seldomly use any other even with the price spikes that I have seen in Tide the last few years. Tide has always cleaned better than its competitors. Even though I was skeptical that this little pod would be able to clean a large load I purchased them anyway. Now these are the only thing I will use. I will not go back to the powder. I don't have to worry about spilling it anymore either. They are not heavily scented and thats good but they are very powerful and they do clean very well. I would definitely recommend and they are a lot cheaper here than in the store for the quantity that you get.
I must say buying this detergent definitely saved me some money and I don't have to buy detergent for the next two months! I will always buy my detergent from this website.
I always try to be thriftful, but they say you get what you pay for, so why not splurge..At $9,999.00 I was going to go ahead with purchasing several bottles of this before a price increase, but lo and behold, there is a shipping charge..Now I really wanted this cause it had to be worth it and more, but com'on, they should at least pay shipping..Too bad, they lost a sale of at least 4 bottles of this..Oh well, I guesss it's back to Wal-Mart for the $12 bottle of this
This is my first time for using all of these products except for the bounce sheets and I was happy with all of them. I had heard of the PODS before but never bought them because of my fear that the kids would think they were candy. (There was a segment on the news warning parents not to let their kids see the PODS because they look like candy.) My kids haven't gotten a hold of them (knock on wood) and they have been great at cleaning some difficult things such as cloth diapers. The scent boosters also work great. The directions are vague and they don't seem too concerned about how much you put into your washer but a small amount seems to work fine. The bounce sheets work great as usually. One sheet seems to freshen a full load. This is a great package and would highly recommend it.
LOVE THEM! Just pop one in the laundry and it comes out looking wonderful and smells great!!
I love the way this product works, but I really dislike the way it smells. I would give a fragrance-free version 5 stars easily. Cutting the fragrance in half would help.
I love tide, but caution you against purchasing and having it shipped. The first shipment the bottles were cracked and the liquid soap leaked all over the inside of the box, I called amazon and a replacement was sent. I was initially told that I could discard the mess. but afterwards, I was informed that I had to return the initial box or would be billed for the second shipment as well. I told them to cancel the replacement but it was sent anyway and despite many attempts to resolve, i was billed for the second shipment. This has been the ONLY dissatisfactory service that I have experienced with Amazon.
Thank you Tide & Amazon! I love being able to have this delivered 2 at a time. It lasts me quite a while, works great & is less expensive than buying elsewhere.
I am a stay at home father and i raised 3 kids. It wasn't easy but relying on Tide helped me out The clean, the smell and the economical price, made it easier to help me raise our kids. Thank you Tide.
I have been using Tide Clean Breeze scent for about 4 years and it is the only thing I will use. It not only cleans my clothes but, leaves behind a nice fresh smelling scent that lasts until I wash the garment again.
I have been using the HE Free & Gentle for about a year now in my front loader. I have recently noticed my towels smell like mildew when I get them wet. I added some essential oil to try and give it some scent but it doesn't help. I am unable to use anything with a lot of dyes and perfumes because i am allergic. The towels are old so I am going to get new ones but if you have any suggestions, please help!
This detergent is great for cleaning whites and everything else. It also leaves a nice, fresh scent. You don't have to use a whole lot, so you can get a bunch of loads from one bottle. Tide is probably the priciest laundry detergent out there, but it's very good. Still, I wouldn't buy it at the regular price; I'd wait for a sale or coupon.
I mean, Tide is known for its quality cleaning (and higher cost accordingly). I am not a domestic goddess, so I don't pay much attention to how clothes' colors change over time, compare their softness, etc., and often don't feel like the price of Tide is justified. When used, it did its job, as far as I could notice after using this particular type of Tide. The smell however is too strong and two sweet for my taste. I expect the quality to be in line with Tide's previous versions.
This is a great product. I purchased it because Tide is always the most expensive brand, but this one was actually reasonable! I just love it and will never use anything else.
I have to admit that I was very pleased and surprised with Tide Plus Febreze Freshness. It had a very pleasant scent that was light, so not to be overpowering, yet strong enough to be enjoyable. The laundry that I washed using this detergent came out very soft and bright. I did not notice the scent as long lasting or lingering as stated, however I have yet to find a laundry product that stands the test of time beyond a day or two. This Tide did exceed my expectations and worked better than cheaper brands. Though a bit pricey, I hope to be able to indulge in purchasing this product occasionally in the future.
I ruined a pair of white jeans by washing them with coloreds and a different brand of detergent a few weeks ago, and this stuff took the stain out. Very impressed, worth paying more than the cheapo stuff.
I love these pods
I thought I was nuts when I used the new Ultra tide because it didn't work the same as the original powder. It made all my clothes have this slick feel to them like all the detergent hasn't rinsed totally out. So I rinsed again and use a lot less stated on box. I still got that slick feeling to my clothes (which feels nasty, not good). Even cotton fabric had the feel. I have used Tide for a long time and I am not happy with the changes made to it. I see from other reviews that a lot more people are not happy either. I have searched the area over to find the original powder but no luck. everyone is carrying the new JUNK! Please bring back the original formula for people who do not like the ULTRA and let us be the ones who make the decision to buy the ORIGINAL or the ultra JUNK. If you are not going to bring back the original, I guess I will be looking for another brand. Tide is expensive but I didn't care because it took care of my clothes.
My son and daughter in law came to take me out for brunch on Mother's Day. I was wearing white pants and a pretty blouse and carried a cup of coffee, my first mistake! My son hit a pothole and my coffee splashed on my white pants. We were too far away to go home so I could change my clothes. My daughter in law, Shari, opened her purse and took out her Tide To Go and I got all the coffee stains out of my pants! I was so happy I went out and bought myself one the next day! And Mother's day was perfect!
I first bought these for my daughter when I sent her off to college. I figured it was an easy way for her to take care of her laundry. She brought some home for the summer and I used them and fell in love. They cost more but when I figure out that I never got the number of washes from the bottles of liquid I was buying and often added cleaning supplements, I can justify my using it. I love the convenience and they clean very well. I've converted a lot of my family members and friends to pods. Life is so buzy and just popping a pod into the machine is just so convenient. Its my way of being nice to me!
BEWARE! BEWARE! BEWARE! Be very careful to use this,or even better DO NOT BUY this detergent. I COMPLETELY DISAGREE with the 5 star ratings! The rating should be 0.If there was a rating as absolute worst. We all know that Tide is one of the best- if not the best on the market. This product got on the market before careful testing.And I`m not even talking about the design of the pods, what obviously caused some serious problems/accidents with small children. Yes, the content is powerful, and cleans.I`m not so much fond of the scents, but that`s ok.. THE BIG ISSUE is, the casing of the pods.They DO NOT DISSOLVE completely.( Or I should say sometimes they do, sometimes they don`t.And there`s no logical reason for it, unless the product is not perfectly tested and developed.Also no way to figure out why) I completely read all the suggestions from the container and also called in for details,and followed the expert advice. STILL, multiple times happened: the pods DO NOT DISSOLVE COMPLETELY, leaving the plastic looking casing in the rubber edge of the drum( if I was lucky), or what is the worst,somewhere between the clothes,stuck on the fabric, like chewing gum/ It happened multiple times, regardless of the tempereature,cycle, or the nature of the load. My washer is a HE front loader, new ( I also used the same brand and type for years before- so it has nothing to do with not having enough experience about the washer). This product is designed to make our life easier doing laundry- less product to fill, no measuring etc,only one step,right? HOWEVER we should check each and every piece of garment inside and out before the load goes to the dryer. If you put the clothes in the dryer with the part of the gummy-like partially absorbed casing-leftover or I should say,not-absorbed pod casing , the whole thing cooks in the dryer, hardens, and melts on, creating an impossible to clean plastic spot. It is so powerful, that multiple times when we tried to remove it from the fabric, it was torn without any change on the hardened plastic residue. IT RUINED ABOUT 27 pieces of good quality pieces in out household,including brand names and favorites. My whole family hates this product. You could ask, why did I still use it?Here is why.First we didn`t recognize the problem, until the clothing items got used again( wasn`t in an easy to see spot, or it got folded and got covered with the good layers). I felt, that maybe I was wrong as a user, so I should pay more attention how to work with this type of detergent. So, I called the manufacturer. Was kind of surprised that I should put the pod in a sock!!! Wow, what a great design of a new product.Followed through.When our loss of favorite clothes still significantly increased,and we lost hundreds of dollars worth of good outfits I called again.The customer service apologized,and didn`t seem to be surprised. They took care of the loss,not the issue.They couldn`t change what was already on the market and bought by thousands/millions of customers.They were obviously experienced handeling those type of problems, and the pretty upset customers.Didn`t like that they also gifted coupons to USE THE SAME PRDUCT AGAIN after it ruined number of outfits, and they agreed that it was the pod detergent and its poor design. I`m considering to donate the boxes (w/ almost 200 pods) to an animal hospital ( with clearly typed notes about the dangers using it) One of my friend suggested to sell them online ( to replace out clothes) - and let all those customer use this terrible product who are happy with it and have no issues.,and they want it in a friendly price/ I WOULD NEVER BUY AN OTHER POD.Prefer to use the liquid Tide- which is safe and proven working just fine.The old liquid Tide is an excellent product.Ths pods on the other hand is a huge mistake. Mistake of the manufacturer, and even bigger mistake for the customer who spend money on it. You can spend much more for replacing the lost favorites of your wardrobe.
Tide has always been a favorite detergent of mine. I have used it for years. I like the option of being able to buy two containers in one package...works well for me ! Saves having to buy so often. Sometimes they feature a coupon. Also, I really like ordering these types of household items online. It is such a chore buying them at the store, packing them in the car, lugging them home and unpacking them again. This way, they come to my porch and I put them away. They come well packaged in a box that perfectly holds two containers. Delivery saves on your strength. Also, I would like to add that I pay a price at Amazon for them that is much less than the store price, so compare..... as you are getting 50 fluid ounces in each container. A good deal in all ways. Works for me ! Highly recommended if you want to save TIME and ENERGY and the product itself is excellent.
Just so everyone is clear, this is $16 for ONE 50oz bottle of Tide Free & Gentle HE. Normal price for a 50oz bottle of this detergent is around $8 at your local store or even here on Amazon. I thought I was buying two bottles for this price. Shame on me for not reading carefully, but shame on LuvAbargain for a blatant attempt to rip people off. I don't know why they are called LuvAbargain since they clearly hate bargains with this type of pricing. I will NEVER buy anything from them again.
I choose this product for its price and quality. Price: At local stores, the average is a few dollars higher. Given the fact that my wife's new washer requires the HE detergent, this is a no brainer. Pick Subscribe and Save to get the consistent discount, or watch for ongoing digital coupons for this item. Quality: Unscented is the only way to go for our family. I've tried others 'flavors' but most of them are saturated with perfume and other chemicals. At least (maybe it's just the perception) that an unscented one has least of amount of chemicals. Someone can validate that for me?? Personally, I highly recommend it. P.S. The size of these 50 ounce bottles fits just right underneath the washer (stands drawer). I had the larger size before and they won't fit standing up.
great price and wash clean. Will purchase again in the future. Got a good deal for this package. I like it
Great price and happy with leak proof bottles and leak proof packaging. WIll buy this again and again from AmazoN!
Despite all attempts to copy, Tide is still the best to clean clothes. I do a lot of laundry and like my Tide. The price when you buy by subscribing is better than most stores.
Got 4 of these for approximately $9 a piece which is good. Shipping was secure and none were leaking, great value will continue to buy at that price with SS and amazon discounts :)
I can only recommend this product, great price great value great packaging, I got an additional coupon so I paid 45% of the price.
I gave up on Shout when it kept bleaching my colors, even though it was supposed to be for all fabrics. I find that Tide Boost works very well, and I have never experienced bleaching, even if I pre-treat the clothes and don't wash immediately. It is expensive, and that is a bummer, but if it saves clothing from permanent stains, then it is worth the cost. I have a subscribe & save order to purchase at the best possible price.
I love this bundle! The Tide Pods clean so well, and keep your colors bright. The bounce dryer sheets make my clothes soft and eliminate static cling. The Unstopables are now a must use for my laundry! All you need to add is about 10 of the granules to your load and your clothes will smell great! A great bundle to buy college students each semester.
If you read CR you know this is the best and they know it too so you pay. Amazon is usually the least expensive to get it unless on sale.
I LOVE AMAZON... Look for Coupons on site, to make this an even better value. Save $ buying here, especially if you have PRIME...Cold water saves $. All around GREAT DEAL.
Tide pods are my ideal extra stain fighter when it comes to clean clothes. I generally save them for the dirtier loads but my husband likes to throw them in on every load for their ease of use. Just one in the laundry and no mess measuring like a liquid detergent can be. For really tough stains though, you may need to soak or pretreat them. I've found out the hard way that the washer you use can make all the difference in how clean the pods work...even among brand new machines. Bounce I use in the dryer as well as to freshen clothes in drawers. Just like the pods, the sheets are easy to pull one out and throw it in. Never have an issue with static when I use them but sure notice it when I run out. Downy unstopables are more a matter of taste in how much you use. I use less because I don't like a strong fragrance. So if you're looking for a convenient package or just want to try all 3 at once, this is a nice starter to help keep you ahead of the dirty laundry.
I was a little apprehensive about buying the pods, but decided to get them anyway. I absolutely love them and they worked so well. Even though they are more expensive, I am willing to buy them every time I need laundry detergent.
The one household chore that I love doing, that I look forward to in fact, is laundry. As such I feel like I've tried every detergent and additive there is over the years since this is my particular (and peculiar) hobby. But no detergent has worked as well as Tide Total Care HE liquid. And despite the fact that I'm using it in a top-load, non-HE washer while still only adding the amount of detergent recommended on the bottle it works fantastically. I have a lot of dark colored clothing and in the year I've been using this the fading has stopped on my older clothes and doesn't appear to have started on my newer ones. My blacks are still very, VERY black and I've never used a detergent that has kept them that way for this long. My colored clothing similarly has kept it's brightness? saturation? Whatever, it's held it's color (no matter what it is) without fading. It's excellent at removing run-of-the-mill, day-to-day stains without pretreating, though greasy, ground-in, or dried-in stains you definitely need to hit it with some Shout or Zout or similar to remove them completely, but that's still better than other detergents where the stains just fade instead of going away. The other thing I notice the most about using this detergent is how soft the clothes come out. I used to be a religious user or liquid fabric softener, but with this I don't really need it. Do clothes come out softer when I use softener? Yes, but honestly, it's not by that much; you could very easily skip it and save the money and no one would be the wiser. As for the other claims that Tide makes - that this helps clothes maintain their shape and finish, and helps prevent pilling -, I've never experienced those problems with my laundry no matter what detergent or other additives I use, so I really can't say one way or the other. For the record, I do add Calgon liquid to every load of laundry I do regardless of detergent since our area has very hard water.
Am a second generation Tide-Only user, and this is the first time I have not only been dissatisfied but actually disgusted in Tide's performance. These pods are a slimy mess! I have a year-old front loading washer, and when the cycle is finished, there is a glop of colored goo in my front rubber gasket. Cold water wash is the worst. I experimented today to see how long it would stay there before dissolving when I ran more loads (if I didn't wipe it out with a paper towel), and the colored slime never dissolved through 3 more wash loads! Unfortunately, I had bought the 90-pac size of detergent, so I am stuck with it, although I returned to the store and bought both the liquid and granulated traditional Tide. P&G, you really let me down!!
Am a second generation Tide-Only user, and this is the first time I have not only been dissatisfied but actually disgusted in Tide's performance. These pods are a slimy mess! I have a year-old front loading washer, and when the cycle is finished, there is a glop of colored goo in my front rubber gasket. Cold water wash is the worst. I experimented today to see how long it would stay there before dissolving when I ran more loads (if I didn't wipe it out with a paper towel), and the colored slime never dissolved through 3 more wash loads! Unfortunately, I had bought the 90-pac size of detergent, so I am stuck with it, although I returned to the store and bought both the liquid and granulated traditional Tide. P&G, you really let me down!!
Am a second generation Tide-Only user, and this is the first time I have not only been dissatisfied but actually disgusted in Tide's performance. These pods are a slimy mess! I have a year-old front loading washer, and when the cycle is finished, there is a glop of colored goo in my front rubber gasket. Cold water wash is the worst. I experimented today to see how long it would stay there before dissolving when I ran more loads (if I didn't wipe it out with a paper towel), and the colored slime never dissolved through 3 more wash loads! Unfortunately, I had bought the 90-pac size of detergent, so I am stuck with it, although I returned to the store and bought both the liquid and granulated traditional Tide. P&G, you really let me down!!
Overall I am happy with this HE detergent, it works cleans great in a new front loading type laundry machine. I have sensitive skin and it doesn't irritate it but I'm going to try the free and gentle and see if that is even better. Highly recommend it for people who want clean cloths and need a HE detergent.
I know you can read whatever consumer hooha you want and they'll tell you that paying the extra nickel for Tide isn't worth it blah, blah, blah. Just not true. Tide takes care of my clothes infinitely better than all of the ratty cheap detergent out there. I don't care if I'm paying more for them to advertise on every media available. They can have my contribution. I buy quality garments and want to take care of them for a long time to come. Tide does that.Pretty sure it won't make poorly made clothes better though. That's an entirely different matter.
I usually don't use Tide because of cost but the 2 for $10 offer was too good to pass up. I must admit I use less of tide with my washer than the store brand I normally get. This is a great product but I think unless other offer like that comes up I'll shop around.
Great value for 3 of these tide pens. I received exactly what I ordered and was very pleased with it overall. Will order again.
I have not had this product very long. so far it is not bad. I am still on the fence as to whether it is as good or better than the little blue bottle of shout that I have been using with great satisfaction for many years. I DEFINITELY lik4 the lower cost I have by using amazon subscribe and save.
This is by far the best deal I have found on Tide products. Works wonderful, and has a very clean scent. Love this product, and the price !!
loooove tide with febreze
Dear Tide, Why do we have to find a piece of plastic to keep underneath your detergent so we don't get soap spilling down from our detergent shelf onto our washing machines? In my most recent bottle, soap is not just spilling from the top when I carefully put it back onto the bottle. This one is actually leaking from the bottom because the plastic is too thin! And the 100 ounce bottle with the tap on the bottom is a terrible idea. Soap drips from the tap after each use. To the MBA $110k/yr product manager who isn't paying attention: use better plastic in your bottles, and consider testing how easy it is to have soap spilling down the side when we put the top back on the bottle. If it wasn't for the leaks, this would be a five-star product. The soap itself is great. I use it on my stinky athletic clothes and my dress shirts.
Its amazing how well these little things work! I purchased the 72ct. and it works out to about 25 cents per load. Clothes come out clean, and smell great. So thankful I will never have to lug a heavy bottle of detergent down 3 floors (to the laundry room) again!
I've been using Tide detergent for years and have always appreciated first and foremost how well it cleans. Tide Pods keep the same effectiveness but in a more convenient (no mismeasurement/wasting/risk of spilling) package. I was concerned that the Pods might get gummed up in my front-loading HE washer as others had noted, but after using them for a month, I'm yet to see any leftover casings or detergent. The Bounce sheets are as good as they've always been - note that these are two relatively smallish boxes in order to match the 70-load number of Pods included in the bundle. I figured that the Downy Unstoppables would be an unneeded throw-in product, but I've gotten hooked on using it, especially because I have a front-loading washer. That design has a tendency to accumulate stale/moldy odors unless meticulously maintained and cleaned, which can even sometimes transfer to clothing. These Unstoppables have helped that effect on not only the clothes but the washer drum itself. All in all, this is a cost-effective and convenient way to get all of your laundry supplies at once.
TIDE IS GOOD. TIDE ALWAYS HAS BEEN GOOD. IT IS THE ONLY LAUNDRY SOAP PRODUCT THAT YOU ACTUALLY DO NOT NEED MORE THAN THE CAP FULL TO DO A LOAD. I WORKED IN MACHINE SHOPS FOR YEARS BUT TIDE ALWAYS CAME THROUGH. I WAS RECENTLY TAKING CARE OF MY SICK MONEY. ANY MESS THIS WILL CLEAN UP.AND THE SMELL AFTERWARDS IS DELIGHTFUL. IT LASTS AND LASTS SO WHEN YOU PULL YOUR FAVORITE NUGHTY OUT OF THE DRAWER IT SMELLS LIKE IT WAS JUST WASHED. AND IT IS A GREAT SMELL..CLEAN AND FRESH SMELL. I DO NOT WANT MY CLOTHES SMELLING LIKE LAVENDER OR FRUIT..OR EVEN HAWAIIAN! I WANT THAT NICE FRESH CLEAN SMELL!....AHHHH
Great long lasting scent on clothing even after i unpack it from my drawers, but not an overpowering smell. Cleans really well also. Definitely plan on purchasing again.
You can't really go wrong with Tide, so having it in the pods is great. No measuring, so you use the exact right amount every time. Tide is top of the line. No complaints. I like Bounce, but I don't use it with every load. The scent can be a bit much. Downy scent things are nice, too. I just use a really little bit and it adds a nice bit of scent. I like to use these when I use my homemade laundry detergent which I make out of fels naptha, borax, & washing soda. You can't go wrong with this bunch of stuff.
I love everything about Tide Plus. In fact, I usually save this detergent for sheets and towels and use a different kind for clothes. Sheets smell fresh and feel soft for days. Cleans and deodorizes wonderfully. I would order it again and fully recommend it.
I have to have free n clear for my daughters eczema, so I buy whatever is on sale and add a booster like oxyclean to it normally.Tried this due to a coupon, and I love it, clothes cleaner.No booster necessary.Never had Tide before because it was always way more $$ than other things.now I know why.This is truly a superior soap.I use it in a traditional top load washer and it works better than anything on the market.
I have been doing laundry for 40+ years, have always used Tide. Started with the powder. switched to liquid, and then got a sample of Tide Pods. Wow! What a great surprise, this little packet has it all, stain fighters, great scent and of course that great Tide cleaning power. I know I sound like a paid commercial, but believe me, I would never recommend anything that I didn't truly believe in. If you haven't tried it do yourself a favor, buy some, I think you will be pleasantly surprised.
Overall, this is a nice package...great to send off to someone who is leaving for college, or just moving into a house. The major drawback I found is that sometimes the little pods somehow work their way into the big rubber gasket on the front of my front-loading washer (which is level)...annoying. I'll find a halfway empty little deflated plastic thing in there...and sometimes I have to run the load through another wash cycle, if the packet broke open too late in the cycle and left concentrate residue on the clothes. It's never hurt the laundry,..it's just a waste of time and water. The dryer sheets are nice (nothing new there)...but there are only 34 sheets in each box (I have another box that I bought earlier...it has 240 sheets, so these are very small packages, about an inch thick. There is NOT any "Downy fabric softener" in this package, unlike the title of the product states. There is Downy "in-wash scent booster," which adds fragrance, but not static guard or softening to the laundry. I find this product almost completely useless, since there are scents already in detergent and fabric softener...
I have used Tide detergent all of my adult life - first powder detergent, then liquid detergent, and now Tide Pods. I've always been happy with the results until just recently. I am using Tide Ocean Mist 72 pack of pods, and I noticed that my nice white sweater had a purple stain on it AFTER being washed, not before. I tried twice more washing that sweater and the stain was permanent. I didn't make the connection to my tide pod. I wash and rinse in cold water and the package clearly states the pod will dissolve in ANY water temp. 2 more separate sessions of laundry, and now each time I wash with the pods, there is a sticky purple mess like gum or glue stuck to my clothes after the rinse cycle. I will never buy these pods again. And I'm a 35 year long customer. I have wasted a big chunk of money on this 72 pack of pods which are now useless and have ruined my favorite sweater. P.S. I'm from Calgary, Alberta, Canada, but the pull down menu did not allow me to choose Canada so I picked a random state.
I have used Tide detergent all of my adult life - first powder detergent, then liquid detergent, and now Tide Pods. I've always been happy with the results until just recently. I am using Tide Ocean Mist 72 pack of pods, and I noticed that my nice white sweater had a purple stain on it AFTER being washed, not before. I tried twice more washing that sweater and the stain was permanent. I didn't make the connection to my tide pod. I wash and rinse in cold water and the package clearly states the pod will dissolve in ANY water temp. 2 more separate sessions of laundry, and now each time I wash with the pods, there is a sticky purple mess like gum or glue stuck to my clothes after the rinse cycle. I will never buy these pods again. And I'm a 35 year long customer. I have wasted a big chunk of money on this 72 pack of pods which are now useless and have ruined my favorite sweater. P.S. I'm from Calgary, Alberta, Canada, but the pull down menu did not allow me to choose Canada so I picked a random state.
I have used Tide detergent all of my adult life - first powder detergent, then liquid detergent, and now Tide Pods. I've always been happy with the results until just recently. I am using Tide Ocean Mist 72 pack of pods, and I noticed that my nice white sweater had a purple stain on it AFTER being washed, not before. I tried twice more washing that sweater and the stain was permanent. I didn't make the connection to my tide pod. I wash and rinse in cold water and the package clearly states the pod will dissolve in ANY water temp. 2 more separate sessions of laundry, and now each time I wash with the pods, there is a sticky purple mess like gum or glue stuck to my clothes after the rinse cycle. I will never buy these pods again. And I'm a 35 year long customer. I have wasted a big chunk of money on this 72 pack of pods which are now useless and have ruined my favorite sweater. P.S. I'm from Calgary, Alberta, Canada, but the pull down menu did not allow me to choose Canada so I picked a random state.
The product itself is great. I definitely prefer it over scented detergents. I thought it would be worthy enough to note that I bought this exact 2 pack for $23.94 as a lightning deal on December 26th 2013. It's now selling for $17.98 + $1.00 coupon = $16.98. Not even two full months later and I'm feeling a bit ripped off.
I asked my husband what he thought of April Fresh. He said I didn't really notice the difference it doesn't smell any different. Then he sniffed his tshirt. Wait. It does smell better. Now I catch him sniffing himself while watching tv, during video game down time, and even when getting in or out of the car. Is it a dramatic wonderful OMG change? Nope. Just a subtle change. An amusing one for me.... The detergent cleans well and is soft although I do use bounce in the drier. If the stain has protein or grease like blood, oil or grass then I put a little dawn dish washing detergent. Then scrub and rinse as soon as the stain is noticed. Put the item in the washer with the rest of the laundry. Dawn is great for a pre-wash. I would use it again. Likes the way it cleans, likes the way it smells and LOVE the funny reactions from my guy (did not rate for that)
This is the first time I've purchased Era and I'm pleasantly surprised by how well it works. I usually purchase Tide and thought I'd try something else that was less expensive. I've tried Kirkland brand and others and none has worked as well as Tide for removing dirt and stains, but Era does. Would definitely purchase again!
They still look like new.
These stain pens aren't anything worth bragging about. Unlikely I will buy them again. They work on the typical easy to remove fresh stain but not any better than a less expensive brand. I have found the resolve stick (the kind that is shaped like a deodorant bottle to work the best on both fresh and old stains. No, I wasn't paid to say that, it just works better, in my opinion. These proved to be unnecessary and a waste of $$$. Otherwise, no complaints on the transaction itself.
I couldn't find anywhere that this had perfume in the ingredients but this is killing me allergy wise. Works great on whites and drains the color off of deep dark clothing. I won't use it anymore - giving it away. We normally use unscented products and this is over the top for us.
I love tide - it gets dirt out well and also always leaves the wash smelling great. Love the pods because they are so easy to use
Cleans well, smells great and do not need to use much to get clothes clean.
I'm a big fan of Era detergent. I've been using this brand for years. I was so happy to see Era make this detergent with Febreze freshness. I love this detergent. It smells so good! It leaves our clothes smelling fresh and clean. I think it works just as well as Tide, if not better. I was using Era Fistful of Fresh before this. That laundry detergent smells awesome too. I'll buy this laundry detergent over and over again. I give it 5 stars!
I love the freshness and quality of Tide. It does a awesome job at getting my cloths clean and smelling great
I use this along with Downy Free & Sensitive and my clothes, linens and towels are clean, soft and smell great-the scent is not too strong when rinsed properly. I'm very happy with this product and will continue to use it for years.
smells really great i have always used this when i could afford it
My mom use this type all the time. we found its even cheaper at walmart and free shipping when its over $45, what we did is ordered online and pick it up from the frontdoor
One day, while I was at work, wearing a white shirt. I spilled Coke all down the front of my shirt. I had to go to church right after work and did not have time to go home to change shirts. Fortunately, I carry a "Tide To Go" pen in my briefcase. I used the pen (and it was a big area) and every part of the area came clean!! Thank you Tide, GREAT product
I have a favorite white shirt that was starting to look a little dull. I thought about throwing it out, but then saw this item. So I figured why not? It is only a few dollars to try to whiten up the whites. I tried it on a load of whites, and that dull white shirt is really whiter. I used this tTide Boost in a regular top loading washing machine. I will definitely buy it and use it again.
for 7 out of 10 loads the packet did not dissolve and left little white granules in the wash. When it did dissolve, the wash seemed brighter and I did not have the rust stains other people got. Upon reading the small print i found they recommend warm or hot water and I use cold always. I am very surprised at Tide. It is a poor product. Their liquid Tide gel packs are fine tho. One other gripe, when I went on their web site to try to send them an email, they put me in a circular loop with instructions on product use and never allowed the email to be sent. I also had to jump thru many hoops to get a snail mail address.
I bought my first bag of Tide boost vivid and bright pacs, and when I used it, my light colored clothes came out with blue stains on them! My son's khakis and light colored dress shirts have very noticeable stains, and he hadn't even worn them yet! So mad because it took me forever to find khakis that looked good on him!!
I've always used Tide with bleach alternative (which I still use for whites), so thought I would give this a try for a change of pace for colors. I'm glad I did, it works well, and more importantly, cleans well (even with a overly packed load of clothes.) It left them smelling clean and fresh, and I would definitely use this again. I feel the same about Tide Plus "Sport" scent, which I also liked and would use again. I mistakenly ordered the same "Spring & Renewal" scent for "High Efficiency" washers. The fact that it's made for those usually front-loading "High Efficiency" washers just means (according to Tide), that, yes, you can use it in a top-loading, NON high-efficiency washer, just expect less suds. I did get less suds, but also got the same clean and fresh smell which I liked as much as the REGULAR Tide plus Febreeze liquid laundry detergent, "Spring & Renewal" scent for non high-efficiency washers, which I also ordered and liked very much. I think that covers the three of them, which Amazon was duplicating my review for one bottle that I ordered for all three! In short, you can't go wrong with any of them, HE formula (for High Efficiency washers), or the regular detergent formula. The scents for both did not seem as strong or pronounced as promised, but as stated above, all of my clothes were thoroughly clean and smelled clean and fresh... what more can you expect from a detergent?
Love it like I love most Tide laundry products. Save the added expense of buying a separate fabric softener with this product. Your clothes feel and smell amazing. Less to carry if you do your outside of your home. No residue on your clothes left by powders. This is a definite stable in my home.
Tide-to-go is great at lifting stains, however, if you get a tide-to-go pen like I did, you won't be satisfied. These pens tend to spoil over time and if you purchase one that spoils, it will cause your clothes to smell and smell strongly. The smell is unpleasant and can be compared to vomit or sour milk. Tide-to-go should be sold like milk, with an expiration date. I used to be an avid user of Tide products but now that I've experience what I've experienced, along with the money I've wasted, I can no longer trust Tide products!
These pods have worked perfectly in my old front loader. I place one in the bottom, upside-down then load the clothes. I have never had any problems at all. It keeps the area neat and clean. I add a Boost Vivid White pod for most loads because of hard water. If I have very dirty clothes I use 2 Tide pods and 1 Boost Vivid. I wash everything on Warm because that's what I've always done but my son uses cold water and he has never had a problem either. I really like the way the Boost Vivid makes the clothes smell! I think it's like Oxy-Clean, which I've always used with the hard water. I can't say that I like or don't like the Spring Meadow Scent as I don't actually smell anything. I love these pods. Buy a small amount like I did, and test them out before you buy the large size container.
ZERO STARS! Why anyone would buy this vile great grandmother scented product is beyond me. I HATE Tide's scent. It gives me a migraine like headache. My husband bought it and washed all the sheets & comforters. I had to re-wash EVERYTHING in plain water 3 times to try to get the TIDE STENCH out of them. It still smells like stinky perfume. Febreze & scented TIDE are now banned in our home. Disgusting product!
would love it in a pod. have used tide free for years. thankyou
I like Tide, but I have used other Procter & Gamble products, like Gain, Era and Cheer. I saw this new Tide Simply Clean & Fresh Detergent while shopping in Walmart, so I decided to buy it. I purchased the small size just in case it did not work "WOW" it worked. I have since purchased two more bottles. This is some good detergent, I like both of the scents, they knock the musty smell right out of my husband work clothes. I will continue to buy it. Thanks P&G for making something that works and is affordable.
I found that buying Tide this way was pretty inexpensive. I was able to use the S&S discount and since it's delivered right to my home, I don't have to worry about running out and buying it! Tide is a great product and honestly I don't like using anything else but Tide!
I am a tide kind of girl. My mother has always used tide so that is what I've grown up on. In my household I was using Tide Sport version because I loved the smell and how well it handled my childrens clothes. Now with Simply Clean and Fresh I am in love. I love the scent and how clean my clothes come. The price is a plus, but that isn't a concern for me. I just love them!! Thank you so much for creating this amazing product.
Cleans Great and smells fantastic, I Love it cant go wrong for the value !!!!
My mother has used Tide and Bounce for as long as I remember. Honestly, I haven't used either in years due to the cost. The pods seemed to be an unnecessary "improvement" to me. However, I must say I really have enjoyed just tossing the pod in the washer. So clean and simple! Tide always does an outstanding job cleaning my clothes and leaves them smelling fresh. Which brings me to the next product in the bundle, the Downy Unstoppables. I LOVE THESE THINGS! I have used just plain vinegar in the rinse water for years to soften clothes and remove odors. It works, but there is no lovely scent left to enjoy. This product solves that problem! The crystals are easy to use (I appreciate that you can choose how much you want to use in each load), and leave my laundry with a nice fresh LIGHT scent. Bounce provides outstanding static electricity control, which is the main reason I would use this product. It also leaves me clothes smelling lovely. The combination of the scent of Tide and the scent of Bounce will always take me home.
These pods not only smell great but are small and convenient because these pods cut down on price of buying more and more detergent which happens when the kids use to much liquid or powder. I would recommend these to anybody who ever been unsure of how much to use.
I have been using Gain lately, love the smell, it is a little cheaper than Tide, AND it effectively gets my clothes clean. BUT I bought a small bag of Tide pods at the grocery, curious what it is all about. I love them! Smells great, easy to use, no messy detergent bottle AND I love the packaging! (I'm a sucker for that stuff) I will definitely buy again! I got the ocean mist kind. I do wish I could smell the different scents before buying, I just had to go out on a limb and hope I liked the scent, and I did.
I was a little unsure about switching from the tude wuth febreeze but I'm glad I did this detergent cost less smells just as good if not better and works get on stains
Ok so I love the product in terms of convenience and efficiency, but please please please get new scents!! Perhaps a clean linen, I don't like that the only options are very scented.
I'm a nurse and have to wear white scrubs. The pods have left brown spots all over my scrubs:( loved the convenience of them...but has cost me 3 sets of scrubs:( I have also had problems w the shell not completely dissolving.. And sticking to my clothes:(
I Love the pods. My husband is in the military and comes home covered in grease and i use tide pods to wash his uniforms, i would recommend to a friend and i have to other military wife's. LOVE THEM!!!!
I love the Tide Pods, they are easy to use, clean very well an no mess. I read some of the reviews and would like to say I have had no problems with the Pods only good results. Thanks Tide.
Every weekend my 3 grandchildren come and spend time with Grandma. and Grandpa. I don't want to be doing laundry, I want to spend time fishing, catching frogs, making dumplings, painting, and making forts with all the blankets on the trampoline outside.. Just a few of the things my grandkids and I do together. On Sunday before Mom and Dad pick them up we throw all in the wash with my Tide HE and they are clean and fresh. Mom and Dad never know our secret. That's my Tide and I know I can depend on it. Love those grandkids to pieces.
BOOM! Tide Plus Febreze Freshness (my favorite scent)'s in the (laundry) room. And when Tide Plus Febreze Freshness is in the room, a great laundry-day experience can happen! LOVE that lavender cap, too! BOOM!
I love this detergent for my Children's clothes. I use the Tide Pods for mine and my husbands clothes and HIGHLY wish that you guys would make the PODS in the Free & Gentle version. Would make laundry duty a little easier. But I love TIDE products. Don't use anything else!
I love Tide Free in powder form! Due to allergies I need to use fragrance free products and this products truely has no scent.
I have been a Tide user on and off, and I love that this new formula has the Acti-Lift in it. It really does help to take away stains, and coming from a mother of two year old twins, and a four year old...you can take my advice! Our clothes get so filthy, but I have confidence that the Tide with Acti-Lift will take out our...
I have been using this product for several months for most of my whites and all of my pastels (colored fabrics). I like it as a booster, but I still pre-treat stains first. Between this product, stain treatment, and recommended Tide detergent (both powder and liquid), my laundry looks great. This specific product is no longer carried in the grocery stores that I go to. I don't know why. The similar Tide product with the white and orange pods (booster product, not detergent) is what some of the stores carry. I haven't tried that other version. I still use Clorox liquid bleach for some white loads, though, including colorfast pastels, along with Tide detergent (expecially the powder). There is really nothing like liquid bleach for the sanitation that it provides, as well as the stain removal properties. We also do not mind - in fact, we like - that unmistakable bleach scent on towels and sheets.
Before I tried Tide Simply Clean , I was using a mid level detergent that I thought was a decent alternative to the more expensive Tide. The brand I used is the same price as TSC so my last purchase, I decided to forgo the purchase of my regular detergent to try the new TSC . Well let me say that I am now in laundry heaven. My clothes smell fantastic and my laundry is bright! My only question is : How long before Tide realizes they can get another $3.00 per unit out of this product ?
Tide is P&G's strongest detergent. I know because I did marketing for them in the past. This product performs as you would expect it to. Over the years, they have gone from powder to liquid, regular to concentrated ultra, and changed the formula to be more eco-friendly (but with less cleaning power). They added fragrances, bleach substitute, Oxi, and now fabric softeners. It's still cheaper to buy them individually but some people like the convenience. I can't wait to hear the story about the manager who went to the executive meeting smelling like a newly laundered baby's diaper. Lol
Not too heavy to lift. Dissolved quickly in the wash water, did not have to pre-treat any stains. Our white cloths and linens came out bright and smelled so fresh. Even the colored and print cloths seemed brighter. This box of Tide detergent even had money saving coupons inside, making it an even greater bargain. Can't go wrong with Tide.
The only clothes that came out 'great' were brand new clothes worn once.The other clothes were NOT brightened.They were cleaned,but dingy white t-shirts remained dingy.& the stain-removal action was non-existent.They were convenient,though.No measuring.Just toss & go.
I put Tide Pods to the ultimate test. Hurricane Issac passed through Miami recently and with its winds knocked electricity. Try potty training with no electricity to run the washer :) Luckily, my mother gave me tide pods. I diluted one in a basin of water to wash my son's adorable underoos. I was very impressed with how the pods maintained the brilliant colors in his underpants. It makes me smile to see him running around in his CLEAN supero-hero bottoms. Thank you.
I have used Tide detergent for many years (like over 20) and have always been happy with it until recently purchased the HE liquid with Febreze. The smell it leaves on my clothes is absolutely horrible... like a flowery chemical smell that is nauseating. I have changed my clothes, but the smell gets absorbed into my skin, so the only way to get rid of the smell is to shower and scrub it off.
For you out there thinking that you are getting and easy all in one product with the Tide Pod...your wrong....as I sadly found out. Terrible to NO stain remover, dissolve of pod not great and in general clothes came out just as I put them in!
After reading many of these reviews I cannot understand why the tide PODS users who are disappointed in the product are not thinking that it may be a problem with their washing machine? I have used Tide Pods since they were on the shelves of my supermarket and I would not consider any other product. They work Beautifully and never have I had a problem with blue stains or the plastic adhering to my clothes. My only disappointment in Tide is that they do not yet make the pods for their VIVID detergent. When they do that will be the only detergent I buy. Yes!! no more detergent for whites and another for darks. Hurry up Tide!
I only wash in cold water and the TIDE PODS work great!!
Tide pods turned an entire load of white clothes into blue splotchy clothes. I expected much more from Tide. There was no warning anywhere on the bag to this effect.
I had used the pods for a few weeks without problems and then today had a horrible stain on a maroon sheet. I washed it again with regular Tide but the stain won't come out and the sheet is ruined. I won't be using the pods any more because i don't want to risk ruining any more items.
Tide Fabreze just streaked a bunch of brand new high quality cotton towels. It is not safe for use in cold water with dark colors; it caused the dark colors to fade. There should be a warning on the product. Use with whites only.
I got a bottle of Tide sport today after the commercial touted it could get out the smells of teenage sweat. It does not remove the lingering aroma of sweat from your clothes, only puts a little febreze on top. Works as well as my unscented regular detergent. I would not buy this again.
My daughter and I was washing clothes, we hung our clothes/ whites in the basement.We turn out the lights and went upstairs. Coming back down to the basement seconds before turning on the lights, i notice there were brightness coming from the back of the basement. that brightness came from only my daughter's whites. My whites was right beside hers. I asked my daughter what kind of detergent she used ( TIDE).eighteen years ago I switched to tide, because dirt can't hide from tide.
Could not find in stores. Had to place a online purchase. Arrived the next day. Thanks Walmart !!
Husband bought these by accident. After getting aggravated at him, I was going to bring these back to the store. I am so glad that I decided to give these a try. They work great- so wonderfully easy to use, and like regular Tide, clothes come out clean and smelling wonderful!!
Since being a stay at home wife and mother I have had to wash clothes on a daily basis. And with 3 boys in our house stains are always a possibility. I've tried using so many different brands of detergent for not only stains, but also for a great smell. I have to hang my clothes outside and although Gain had a great smell it would not last after hanging my clothes outside. So I tried Tide Pods Spring Meadow and boy did the smell last! One day, I left my clothes out all day in the hot sun while we went out. I was so worried that I would have to rewash them, but when I finally came home and took the clothes down, they still smelled great! I was so happy. Not only do these pods save you from using too much or too little detergent but they also are worth every penny you spend. I love them and I would not go back to any other detergent! :)
Give the person who thought of these things a raise! Easy to store. Cleans great. Smell great. No messy sticky liquid laundry soap spills in the laundry room. No power crud build up on the back of the washer lid hinges! Best way to do laundry. Will never use powders or liquids again. Only problem, I can't figure out which scent I like the best!:-)
Give the person who thought of these things a raise! Easy to store. Cleans great. Smells great. No messy sticky liquid laundry soap spills in the laundry room. No power crud build up on the back of the washer lid hinges! Best way to do laundry. Will never use powders or liquids again. Only problem, I can't figure out which scent I like the best!:-)
After getting so frustrated with using so much detergent, Tide Pods flashed across my TV and I decided to give it a shot. IT WAS AMAZING. Don't have to guess if I used the right amount of detergent and I use lavender dryer sheets which work well with Spring Meadow. I tell everyone to switch to Pods, they are so simple, keep my clothes smelling great and my husband loves the smell. I just got my mother in law to buy them as well. THANK YOU!
Great product, a little expensive but worth it. I used to use cheaper detergents and would sometimes end up washing my husbands gym clothes twice to get the funky smell out. Now I throw a pod in wash and it fights the harsh odors. It's amazing what one of these little things can do!! Great for stain fighting as well. Today I put my toddlers expensive White Polo in the wash w food mess all over it and the pod did its job. I didn't even have to pretreat the stains!! Very happy
I always use Tide brand detergents - one day the store was out of my usual type so I bought the Febreeze version. I walked around for a few days wondering what smelled - was it my co-workers? NO IT WAS ME - my clothes smell horrible. I'm about to throw out an almost full bottle since I can't stand the horrible smell enough to use the rest of it. Really, I'm not very picky about things, but this product is not usable.
Love using Tide, its the only detergent that can really clean all my athletic wear without leaving a weird smell. HOWEVER, this is overpriced. I can get a 100 oz bottle of the regular or HE soap at Target for only $11.99. That's the base price, not the sale price, so even though I initially thought this was a deal, it isn't. The only Tide deal on Amazon is the 100 OZ 4 pack of Tide with Downy, which is like $47.88. You save about .10c Unless its highly marked up in your area, I would recommend buying this at Target or Walmart.
I was using the pods, which I also adore, but switched back to this version. It lets you have more control over detergent vs. laundry load size. I had to ask myself if I was really that lazy to tip a bottle? No, no I am not! Roar! Tide works really well, smells really great and I prefer the built in fabric softener, because I do not like fabric softener sheets. It's also a lost more cost efficient on Amazon compared to the stores.
I think "HE" products are a ripoff! The low suds don't get clothes clean. But this product did make them smell good. Two 50oz bottles for $18. I was new. Then I noticed Wal Mart had one 100oz bottle for $11.96 but...I had to go get it. Since this purchase I have gone to get two more! But not "HE". I use regular liquid soap and an extra rinse cycle and clothes come out great.
This is the perfect detergent for those smelly workout clothes. works very well and smells great too. I've ordered several jugs of this and will order several more.
Tide was rated very high by Consumer Reports, so I decided to switch from my normal All Free &Clear. I'm glad I didn't buy very much. Even though it says unscented it leaves a really nasty scent on my clothes. Everyone in the house commented that their clothes smelled like mildew after we switched. I thought it might be the machine at first, so I cleaned it out and tried again. The smell was still there. I finally added some essential oils to the bottle and that helped a little, but the smell still lingered. Now I run an extra rinse cycle and that works most of the time. It gets really bad again if you sweat or get your clothes wet though.
I used to love this product. It cleaned well and smelled great. With the last purchase I noticed the scent changed. My family can no longer use this product. It is overpowering and smells like fake sour raspberry candy.
I only use total care on the clothes I air dry, which is a lot. I purchased a bottle in Dec.2013 & noticed the scent has changed. The new scent is very strong & it bothers my family members. I miss the other scent that smelled light & fresh. I will no longer use Total Care. Very disappointed that Tide had to change the scent when nothing was wrong with it. They did that to Downy too (April Fresh) stopped using that years ago. PLEASE BRING BACK THE ORIGINAL SCENT!!
We used to use Tide before they started using the blue crystals, and with great results. We recently switched back and I am not happy. After we started using the new "original" formula our diapers are smelly, delaminated, and constantly gunked up with even the smallest amount of detergent we use. If you want to wash regular clothes with this it works great but don't throw your money down the drain using it on your diapers. Honestly I'm surprised Tide doesn't make a cloth diaper formula.
I have been a loyal Gain user for years. The last time I went shopping, they were sold out of my usual scent of Gain, but they had Tide on sale. So, I thought why not give it a try. For starters, I gave the Tide a real challenge - My husband's work clothes. He is a welder, so his clothes can get pretty dirty. I was very pleasantly surprised at how well the Tide worked! My husband's clothes have never been cleaner! The Gain never got his clothes this clean or smelling this good! He even NOTICED they smelled good! I won't be going back to Gain - I have become a Tide user for life :-)
My only problem is that each item was shipped separately.
Actually the products is for my daughter and i was just being mom. :))
I love Tide but I don't see the point of the lavender scent. I don't smell anything. I won't be buying this scent again. I just want a clean fresh scent and this is not it. Definitely a disappointment. I gave three stars because I like Tide. The failure of the lavender scent kept me from giving it 5.
I love the scent of this one. It stays with your clothes even after drying. It cleans very well with no off smells lingering. I found it to be a good price for the amount of loads it makes. I have a front load washer so I don't use as much as the directions say. I also don't use the cup that comes in the Tide box. It's hard to measure. I use a scoop I got out of different detergent box. It's a perfect quarter cup. I have found a full load does well with a quarter cup of detergent. This box is lasting me longer than the Subscribe & Save time interval I chose. I only do about 4 loads per week. My schedule is every three months. I think I need to change it to every 4 months. Very much worth the price.
To my nose, the Clean Breeze Tide smells a lot better than the traditional Original scent. Use is far better than the liquids sold in stores. It works just the same leaving whites with a crisp white look and taking stains out even after setting for a few days. I washed a rather large load of car cleaning rags in this and was surprised that nearly all of the grime stains came out including some that had not been brought out by our other detergents. The detergent did come a little clumpy and packed, so you might have to loosen it up with the scoop before use; otherwise, good quality and price.
Not sure why the complaints, unless front loading machines are different. Start the water, put the pod in, add the clothes. Never once had a problem with undissolved pods in my top loading machine. Super convenient and the clothes come out great!
When I got my new front load washer I had some pods left as I had used them with my old top load washer. When I put one in the detergent dispenser I had water on the floor. When I went back to liquid detergent no water. The diagram on pack of pods container shows the pod going into the wash drum. But the owner's manual for my new washer says NEVER put laundry products in the wash drum.
I am in college and these are great and so convenient! They are so easy! I wish they had these when I was 10 and learning to do laundry!
Best price on heavy Tide, delivered to my door, shipped free! Do you really need to think much about this!!! I'm recommending it to all my friends!
I honestly thought what would be the difference. The difference was great. Work out clothes stay fresh.
I have used a store brand of pod and had no problem. Tide has always been a strong, effective detergent that I grew up with. Thought I would try the Tide Pods. The 1st load, my quilt came out of the dryer with areas that were stuck together w/ blue stuff. The 2nd was cotton underwear, had a pair that again was stuck together with something blue that had melted onto it. The plastic POD did not full dissolve,melting onto the garment/quilt. I could pull the quilt apart, but the underwear were ruined. I have this very large container of PODS that I will need to pre-dissolve in a cup prior to use in my front loading washer. I will not buy the Tide Pods again, but will by the store brand.
This great gift comes in a smaller package than you'll expect, but it's everything that's in the picture. You get two bags of Tide laundry detergent pods, two little boxes of Bounce dryer sheets, and one bottle of Downy scented pellets. All you need to add is a roll of quarters and you will be the most remembered guest at the housewarming! There really is enough for 70 average sized, reasonably dirty loads of clothes, and the pods I got were good in a front loading washer as well as a top loader. We use a front loading washer, so that's how I'll base my results. Tide really is the Gold Standard when it comes to laundry detergent: nothing else works as well and gets out old, mungy spots and clothes that never heard of pre-treatment. Tide will give you good looking clothes no matter how much of a laundry nimrod you might be. If you remember to put the pod in your load of laundry, they'll come out looking good. (don't laugh, but I forgot once and the results were not impressive at all) The next item is Bounce. Normally, I don't use Scented Bounce which is what's here, but this works as well as the unscented stuff and makes your dresser drawers smell good to boot. The only thing to remember is that you shouldn't use Bounce on your towels, or they will lose their ability to absorb water over time. Since absorbing water is my reason to buy towels, I skip the dryer sheets on those loads of laundry. Bounce leaves a microscopic layer of something (probably wax) that keeps things softer than a puppy's butt and as static free as a cantaloupe. Really, when were you zapped by a melon? (I should probably check YouTube before making this claim, but you know what I mean) Bounce, like Tide, does exactly what it's supposed to do, except for towels. When my kid started doing her laundry, she kept forgetting the towel thing, until I marked the box. Last are the Downy Scented granules. You're supposed to add them to your laundry and then your clothes will smell like the granules for weeks. I don't use them for that, because I don't want people to think my favorite perfume is "Happy Waterfall" or some such thing. I use the granules for keeping really stinky areas good smelling. I put some in an unmatched sock, tie the top of the sock closed and leave the sock thing in the stinky area. It did a great job of removing the funk from the interior of an antique car, and a few in the dirt cup of my vacuum makes the room smell wonderful when I vacuum the rug. Of course, you can and probably should follow the label directions. As a dorm room gift, de-stinking granules would be priceless. All in all, I was delighted with my box of laundry potions. The pre-measured detergent means I only carry one tiny thing down the hall to the laundry room, and the dryer sheets are even lighter than that. Both work beautifully and do just what I need them to do. Same for the granules. Even though I'm not following the directions very well, I'm happy with their de-stinking ability. This would be a great gif to anyone with a new washer/dryer or someone setting up a home for the first time.
I have used a store brand of pod and had no problem. Tide has always been a strong, effective detergent that I grew up with. Thought I would try the Tide Pods. The 1st load, my quilt came out of the dryer with areas that were stuck together w/ blue stuff. The 2nd was cotton underwear, had a pair that again was stuck together with something blue that had melted onto it. The plastic POD did not full dissolve,melting onto the garment/quilt. I could pull the quilt apart, but the underwear were ruined. I have this very large container of PODS that I will need to pre-dissolve in a cup prior to use in my front loading washer. I will not buy the Tide Pods again, but will by the store brand.
I have used a store brand of pod and had no problem. Tide has always been a strong, effective detergent that I grew up with. Thought I would try the Tide Pods. The 1st load, my quilt came out of the dryer with areas that were stuck together w/ blue stuff. The 2nd was cotton underwear, had a pair that again was stuck together with something blue that had melted onto it. The plastic POD did not full dissolve,melting onto the garment/quilt. I could pull the quilt apart, but the underwear were ruined. I have this very large container of PODS that I will need to pre-dissolve in a cup prior to use in my front loading washer. I will not buy the Tide Pods again, but will by the store brand.
When I was younger, my mother used to purchase Tide. When I became an adult, I would purchase Tide for my family household. Afterall, Tide detergent is one of the well-known names and it is guaranteed to clean your clothes and make your clothes smelling fresh. But somehow Tide became the most expensive detergent at your local supermarket and there are those who are brand loyalist and those who believe in the product. But I admit, it's quite weird to hear people call "Tide" fancy today because of its higher price. I still believe in Tide but the problem is, when it comes to budgeting my finances for the family, cutting costs on detergent has literally made us bypass Tide for a long number of years. We love the product and you know you are getting your money's worth, but if you are on a budget, it may be a bit too expensive for some. So, here we are in 2014 and my family are trying Tide plus Febreze Freshness Liquid Laundry Detergent. At nearly $20, this detergent has lasted our family for nearly three weeks, as we do a lot of loads of laundry every weekend. When I twisted that cap off, a glow overtook my garage as if I was Indiana Jones discovering an important relic. OK, not really, but I will say that we were looking forward to using this product and see how it does versus our other detergent that we buy. But I have noticed the difference. The clothes smell great (this comes with Febreze but even without it, Tide detergent still smells very good), feels cleaner and it gets the job done! Yes, Tide is like the crme de la crme of detergents and you are getting what you paid for. But the question comes down to the buyer, are you willing to spend the money on the best detergent on the market? Or go for another brand of detergent that works with your budget? Overall, "Tide plus Febreeze Freshness Liquid Laundry Detergent" is recommended!
I've used Tide Laundry Detergent for many years, it's one of my favorites to purchase when it's on sale. Tide Plus Febreze Freshness has a nice scent to it and great cleaning power as usual. The one thing I have to mention is that I got a touch of it on my hand while pouring the detergent into the washing machine and it took me forever to get that detergent smell off my hand. I don't have this issue with other detergents, or even the other times I've used Tide. Don't know if the Febreze added has something to do with that. So, don't get any on your hands, but the cleaning power is great and the clothes smell nice and fresh when they are out.
Although these have been around a while, I had never tried them before. I got a small trial pack and was very happy with the way that it worked on clothing stains. Most stains completely disappear once the solution has dried. I'm buying them from Amazon because this is a very good price.
I love the pod and I think it does a great job with my laundry. However, the blue part of the pod is a problem. Twice now, I've had blue staining from the pod, both times on sheets. I think maybe the pod get's caught up in the sheets during the cycle and it leaves the blue streaking. I take exception to the response by Tide on the same comment a few days about about using a stain remover. I shouldn't have to use a stain remover to take something out that your product put in. If it's staining, it should be removed from your product. That said, I will still use the pods, but I'm not happy about the blue staining. I'm sure this is a marketing thing, to have colors like this in your product. You shouldn't underestimate the intelligence of your consumers. We don't need bright flashy dyes in our detergent to believe that it works.
Tide is the best detergent in my opinion with Arm and Hammer as my second favorite, but of course the most expensive. It cleans the best, and smells the best while not bothering anyone in the house on their skin. I loved this Tide as much as the others I have tried and the febreeze additive smells great. For clean and good smelling clothes with no irritations Tide is a detergent I recommend.
This detergent has kept my front loader operating efficiently for the past 3 years :) I trust that it will bring me longevity with my font loader. Although the scent can be a little overwhelming sometimes.
I don't have a home laboratory to test detergents systematically, so I tend to go by Consumer Reports, which does have. Given how competitive the market is for home laundry detergents, it's remarkable that Tide has stayed at the top of the ratings for years and years, both for powder and liquid versions and for front loaders and top loaders. There are many formulations and I suspect changes over the years. There are different fragrances and so forth; some of them have a fabric softener or other additive but frankly I have no idea what those do. It smells nice. Proctor and Gamble employs professional "noses" who work long hours to design the scent. I buy big containers because it's cheaper. The next concern for me is whether the detergent is environmentally friendly. So what does this mean actually? Are the detergents one finds in a local health food store, with names like "Enviro-Wash" and "Planett-Savr" really truly better for the environment? In what sense? Well folks, I just spent an hour googling for information and it turns out it's quite hard to answer that question. Just because a product has "natural" ingredients means almost nothing - it's mostly advertising hype. Ever since phosphates were removed from laundry products back in the 60's, which was definitely causing problems in lakes and rivers, it no longer so clear what a green laundry product really means today. Your local health store product is based on plants you say? Well, there are a lot of TOXIC plants, so that can't be the criterion. Unfortunately, based on objective testing, once you get away from the best performing formulas, the effectiveness goes way down. According to CR, products like "365 Organic" and "Seventh Generation" are far less effective than Tide in getting your clothes clean - which is also an environmental objective. The bottom line about choosing a laundry detergent; beyond verifiable efficacy, it's all about marketing. The scent is marketing. The 'green' label is marketing. To find out if it will wash your clothes, read Consumer Reports. To find out if it's somehow better for the environment, prepare to get a PhD in chemistry, biology and agriculture. I'll keep using Tide because I'm in a hurry in the supermarket.
In commercials for detergent, someone hands over to their loving spouse a favored garment caked in dirt, usually done after wrestling in a bog or trekking through the amazon. Well I didn't have a bog handy but I did have a t-shirt stained with black berries after I'd made some preserves. More to the point I didn't notice the stain for several hours meaning it had a chance to set up. And after a little pretreating and a wash? The stain came out. It worked really well. It also cleaned some linen napkins stained with some sauce from BBQ ribs I'd had, ok that is sort of like commercials. The down side is the smell. The scent doesn't cling to the clothes after washing but before hand and on your hands, it is floral, but a chemical, artificial flower such when perfume goes off. "A fine perfume that sat in the bottle too long." My wife declared. I'm also a little concerned with the price. Nearly $20? most comparable bottles in the supermarket are in the $6-$7 dollar range and there isn't that much of a difference in quality. The end product is we were very impressed with the cleaning quality of Tide Plus, but next time we'll buy it without the scent.
My husband volunteers with the local land trust and Nature Conservancy and also does our gardening and landscaping, so I wash his dirty, sweaty workclothes every day. I was thrilled to be offered any Tide detergent, especially a Tide product with the promise of extreme odor control. I got the Tide today and as soon as my husband got home this afternoon, I tossed his clothes into our front loading washer. Remember, if you have a front loading washer, you must use High Efficiency detergent (HE), otherwise you risk damaging your washer. Also, if you have a front loader, after you send a wash through, wipe the door and the rubber bumper and leave the door open to avoid mold growth. I use a Tide Washer Cleaner once a month, too. Anyway, this Tide product smells great and washed even these very dirty clothes clean even on a normal setting. Would I recommend buying this product? Yes, I would, especially if you have heavily soiled laundry to wash. I will probably use something less expensive to wash my own clothes.
Great item to buy online instead of the store. Makes laundry a breeze. I don't think I'll go back to conventional detergent ever again.
I have done six loads of clothes with this new tide with fabreze and it does smell fresh. I like fabreze and I like tide so the combination is great. I do feel that tide is expensive but I guess if you want the best you have to pay the price. It is high energy and doesn't use a lot for each load, so you do save that way. I would purchase this product with no misgivings. Sheets, towels blankets as well as clothes came out smelling fresh and clean.
I think Tide is the best working detergent, but I usually buy ALL because it is less expensive. This detergent works great like all other Tide detergents, but the scent was a little to sweet for me. It made the house smell nice while I was doing laundry. While this scent wasn't bad, I think I will stick with the plain/original Tide scent.
I purchased two packages of this product thinking it would get my clothes extra clean, especially whites. Boy was I wrong. I followed the directions exactly as they are stated on the package. But when the load was done I found that this stain release did not release stains, it actually added stains. All my whites had orange stains from the gel inside the pacs. In addition to the orange stains, the booster pac does not dissolve properly and because of that it leaves white clumps of laundry powder scattered about in the washer and stuck to clothes. Now my light colored clothing has orange stains from the gel and my dark colored clothing has white stains from the powder. I'm never buying this product again and I plan on going to the store where I purchased it from to see if I can get a refund.
I was apprehensive about getting this product because I had never used Pods before and I wasn't sure how they would work in a high efficiency washer. When I got the package I was glad to see that the Pods are also for an HE washer. The first time I washed a couple bed blankets. I sat and watched through the window for a few minutes wondering if the Pods were going to dissolve and then finally gave up and left. When the wash was done there was no evidence of the Pod so obviously it did dissolve eventually in low water. The second time I washed a bedspread and unfortunately that didn't work so well. I found the remnants of the Pod in the rubber part of the drum in front so I don't know how much was actually dissolved. I have since learned to put in the Pods first and make sure they're in the back of the washer so they don't get into the rubber and dissolve. The Bounce sheets have a strong scent and I really like the smell. I've been using Bounce dryer sheets for years. The Downy Unstopables Fabric Softener was a completely new item to me; didn't even know it was made. I put in a partial cap full with some washes and the smell stays for days. Put in a little or a lot for a lesser or stronger scent. I really like these little pearls and I see they come in different scents that I may try. I think this is a great combo and the Pods definitely don't take up near as much space as a bottle of laundry detergent. It would be great for someone who has to pack up everything to go to the laundromat; no heavy bottles or boxes to load. Plus there's no spillage! I'm a new convert to Pods and Downy Unstopables.
I love the pods. They are so easy to use. No dripping or running mess, no measuring, just toss it in. Nice scent but not overpowering. The beads smell a little strong but I don't think they are overpowering either. I like to use them for my sheets and other bedding for a longer lasting fresh scent. The bounce sheets are the same as always. They help with static and add a little scent. I do find the price of these products a little expensive but if you're looking for scent and convenience, this is for you!
I love the product; I swear by it and it's great for my nine-year-old's stains, especially grass stains on the knees of his pants. Price per bottle is usually cheaper on Amazon, and it's always great when you can "clip" the coupon and save a litle more. Great product, great price!
Tide Pods are awful, stained and ruined our clothes.
Our family made the mistake of trying Tide pods after the Christmas holiday. My husband got a some very nice performance fleece pants and shirts. We used the pods for weeks with no problem. All of a sudden the load with the fleece came out of the dryer with dried plastic all over it. It seemed to stick mainly to the fleece items but ruined pants and socks as well. We didn't know where the plastic had come from till we looked under the light and saw the ultra violet color to the plastic. Now my husbands new fleece is ruined and can not be replaced because these types of items are seasonal and no longer available in stores. My husband was very disappointed...thanks so much for ruining his Christmas.
I never used tide until I bought a new front loading washer. there was a free bottle of Tide Total Care in the machine. I was amazed from the lst load of whites!! I didn't use a softner, and very little bleach. the whites came out as white as new and soft and fluffy, when I washed towels and wash clothes they were also soft and fluffy; and I really love how they smell... I now have a problem...for some reason I can't find the total care in any of the stores that used to carry it. Even this web site doesn't show it. so what happened to the total care????
I have used either Tide or Gain for years, depending which is on sale at the store when I need laundry detergent. I have always found Tide to an excellent detergent for several reasons: a small amount goes a long way compared to cheaper detergents, it gets my clothing cleaner, and it removes stains most other detergents leave behind. All these are still true of Tide with a touch of Downy. It remains an excellent detergent. The addition of Downy is nice because the softener is already in the mix and I can just put everything in the washer and forget about it. The Downy aroma is quite pronounced and will stay with your clothes and linens for a long time. If this poses a problem for you or others, then this might not be the laundry detergent for you. But it sure is for me. Excellent cleaning, great softening, and value for the money!
In a word, no I guess. I have been a happy Tide user for years, and like a lot of my friends feel "if it's not Tide, it ain't clean" but as times get tighter I bristled at spending nearly $20 for a jug of it- and trying bargain brands was always an inevitable waste. So I saw this for a little more than half the price and said it's worth a try. Another review on Amazon objected strongly to the smell. I don't share the extreme aversion but understand, it's a very powerful scent, more floral than I'd like, if it bothered me that much it might be a deal breaker- however many other brands have a similar smell just as strong. I noted it's more powerful when you smell the detergent while it's in use, when your clothes come out they don't reek of it in any offensive manner. Now on to the more important part, the cleaning ability. I gathered up all the used up microfiber rags around the shop I used working on cars and other nasty jobs, all the dirty white socks I walked around late at night in when I took off my shoes before bed, (and I have old brown asbestos tile floors) and gave them the same treatment I did with regular Tide- washed in hot water, with bleach, and they came out CLEANER. In the end I think the reviews of this product may be tough because everyone will compare it with Tide and not bargain brands in its price range. Compared against them in cleaning power I'd say 6 stars would be fair. But to me, and probably others, well they got the scent wrong on this one. I'll try the other scent next time. I give it four stars and will probably stick with it scent or no scent because hey, half price is half price, and I finally found something cheaper than real Tide that cleans as well. (Costco's Kirkland wannabe Tide and Smart and Final's version were junk! using twice as much still didn't clean)
I never used tide until I bought a new front loading washer. there was a free bottle of Tide Total Care in the machine. I was amazed from the lst load of whites!! I didn't use a softner, and very little bleach. the whites came out as white as new and soft and fluffy, when I washed towels and wash clothes they were also soft and fluffy; and I really love how they smell... I now have a problem...for some reason I can't find the total care in any of the stores that used to carry it. Even this web site doesn't show it. so what happened to the total care????
I have never rated a product before, but the smell on this Tide is so awful, I felt I needed to add a comment against this product. I like all the other Tide scents, but this particular one is just horrible. It reminds me of cheap cologne and musk mixed together. Many times during the day, I'll get a whiff of a horrible scent and try to figure out where it's coming from... then I realize it's originating from my clothes or my towels... it is the scent of the laundry detergent still on the fabrics! I will never buy this again.
Can I just say from this point on I will only buy Tide Pods!! My daughter in law bought and gave me a couple to try and I am hooked! My laundry was clean and smelled wonderful. This is a task in its self with a house of 5 boys and just me the only girl! Thanks Tide for this amazing product. I hope to try out more of tide products!
I absolutely hate these things right now. I just bought a bunch of new spring (light-colored) shirts and washed them in my (high-quality, fully functional) washer. I started the water and put the pod in and the washer was only half full of my light delicates. Several of my BRAND NEW shirts came out with ugly blue-purplish stains on them. So the stupid pods aren't fully dissolving and are staining my clothes. I am pissed. Twice now I've found a rough spot on a towel in separate loads that can only be the casing of the pod which did not fully dissolve in the washer and was heated in the dryer. In both of those loads, when I opened the dryer I smelled what could only be the awful odor of burnt plastic. Faint, but definitely there. Also, these pods fail to leave that awesome Tide scent on my clothing. What the heck is up with them?! After reading a bunch of information on how "proper use will not result in staining", I call BS. If proper use involves washing every load in warm or hot water (um, no?) filling the washer up with the water first and waiting for the pod to dissolve (seriously?) and running "extra water" in every load, then the proper use of these pods completely negates the reason I purchased them: convenience. I do not want to have to run water in my washer and throw a pod in and WAIT to put my laundry in. Who has time for that?
I really wanted to like these pods. They are super convenient (especially since I live in a high rise and the laundry room is on a different floor), are very economical, and smell great. Unfortunately, in every load of laundry in which I have used the pods, I have had a piece of clothing ruined because the outer plastic failed to dissolve completely. For instance, in one load the outer covering ended up in a sleeve, effectively fusing the sleeve closed. I wash my laundry warm and hot, so there shouldn't be problems--Tide advertises that the pods can be used in both hot and cold water. The product seems to be faulty in this regard. Until I use up my supply, I will be cutting the pods open and throwing the covering away. I will not buy the pods ever again.
I have always loved tide and when the new pods came out i really wanted to try them. I went out and bought some and they work great. i love how they clean my clothes and the way they make my clothes smell! i would tell my friends about tide pods! and i will continue to buy tide pods and products!!!!!
I am about 3/4 of the way through my first "fish bowl" of Spring Meadow scented Pods.  I have a relatively old top-loading Whirlpool Gold washer with "Catalyst Cleaning Action" (which is a pre-cycle using minimum water and a spinning action to pre-treat and saturate the clothes with the detergent - great machine, great feature, btw!).  I bought the Pods on a whim and I have to say that I am pleasantly surprised.  First, I guess I have to admit that I must be something of a rebel because apparently I have not been following the directions for these Pods.  I do not place the Pod in the machine and then add my clothes on top of the Pods.  Instead, I put my clothes into the machine and then place the Pod on top, right under where the water comes out during the fill cycle.  Others have complained that the Pods have not fully dissolved, so maybe my doing this has alleviated this issue.  Anyway, the clothes have come out just as clean as my regular liquid Tide (no better, to be honest, but just as good), and they smell fine, too.                                                                     But, the thing that has me sold on the Pods, is that you get exactly as many loads as promised.  I don't think that I can say that with my old 100+ oz. (heavy) bottles of liquid Tide that promised X amount of loads, and always seemed to run out far sooner than the promised number of loads per bottle.  It seems like I've been working on this set of Pods for quite awhile now, longer than I would have been working on a similarly priced bottle of liquid Tide.  In that sense, this product is actually more economical.                                                                     Another bonus is that you always know exactly how many loads you have left before you need to run out and pick up some more detergent.  Again, not something that I can say with the old bottles of liquid Tide.  I can't tell you how many times we've run a load by adding a little water into the near empty bottle of liquid Tide, shaking it up and dumping it into the machine to get that one last load.  This won't happen with the Pods.  When I'm down to my last several Pods, I know I'll have to run out to get some more.  Which is what I will do - because I really like this product.
Having recently acquired a new front loader washing machine I needed to switch to the "HE" detergents. I first used the Tide powder and it worked quite well, although a little difficult for shorter people to pour in the machine dispenser. On a whim, after inadvertently seeing these pods on Amazon, I purchased them about a month ago. They work just as well as the Tide powder. I followed the instructions of first putting the pod into the empty drum then adding laundry. No problem with any leftover residue that several others complained about. Highly recommend.
I have never been one to write a review or really pay attention to others views because all products work differently for everybody! I have been using tide pods for about a month and LOVE them! My clothes come out cleaner and smell fresher. I do not suggest using the mystic forest scent- clothes come out smelling musky, but the spring meadow scent is INCREDIBLE! I mean literally, my clothes have never smelled better. The pods take all the guess work out of it for my husband so he can wash his smelly gym clothes now :) Would be great to see coupons for tide pods.
I love this product! I started using pods when I replaced my top loading washing machine/dryer for a pair of HE front loaders. I always used a liquid and since the lid opened from the top, I could easily pour in the detergent and rinse the little plastic cup at the same time. Easy. But with front loaders, it's a different story. I have to put the liquid in the top and I can't open the washing machine to rinse the cup. I have to be very careful not to drip and carefully wipe it out. Sometimes I have to go into the other room and rinse. It's not that I couldn't handle it, though it was a few extra steps and given the number of loads I do per week, it was adding up; no, it wasn't all that. It was my loving husband. After many, many years of training, he is finally able to do his own laundry. Yes, it's awesome! But once we switched and he couldn't rinse the cup, it was way to many extra steps for him. He would just leave it on the shelf. Dripping. Getting gooky. Pods are the answer. So easy. No mess. I tried other brands including the Kirkland brand (didn't like the smell at all) but I have settled with Tide. They clean great and the clothes smell wonderfully fresh. It may cost a bit more but totally worth it. This seems like a really long review.
I am a very satisfied, long time Tide user. I decided to try the Pods, and am sorry to say they are a huge fail. The first thing I noticed while trying to decide which scent to try was that there is no way to tell what they smell like until after you've purchased them and open the package. Then I realized why, they smell like a BAD PERM! I figured maybe it was just the plastic or something. Surely Tide wouldn't put out such an awful smelling product. I washed a load of towels and when it was done, I opened the washing machine and nearly vomited. The awful smell was even more intense. Thankfully the store I bought them at exchanged the rest of the package for a different scent. I figured there is no way the others could be as bad as the Mountain Fresh. Well, wrong again. Awful perm like smell. The store now will not give me a refund. In my opinion, there should be a scratch and sniff or some other way of knowing what the scent smells like before purchase or possibly offer the Pods in current scents like original, at the very least.
Best price you can get shipped fast,my #1 go to on the web
i dont like the smells (they make me sneeze) of most scented detergents. the smell of tide is very bearable / pleasant so i dont need to buy nonscented allergy free with this brand. amazon is a bit high on the price of many things compared to walmart, but this i actually managed to get (with a coupon) that made it the same price as walmart.
I use this when washing loads of items that I don't care if they smell fresh (e.g. garage or work towels, area rugs) or if it's an item that will be tightly pressed against my skin (mountain bike gloves, winter hats) to reduce irritation that dyes and perfumes can cause. I purchased this item at a discount at about half the price of the standard Tide and am very pleased with it. It functions no differently than the standard Tide product I am used to, just without dyes or perfumes. For one of the bottles I had, I mixed 50oz of the Tide Free with about 35oz of regular Tide for a lighter scented Tide for those that may want to mix their own for a lighter scent or less dyes.
First time ordering from Walmart and was very impressed. Great prices and fast delivery. Will be visiting web site more often.
Wow, paid less than a dollar to have this big heavy bottle of Tide sent to my home - it would have cost me more than that in gas to go pick it up, not to mention the time saved! Thanks Walmart!
Is worth it, the price is good and this is the laundry detergent I always use.
Tide, in my opinion, is the best detergent out there. I've tried basically everything and overall I'd say that Tide is definitely the best. It's worth the extra money. I prefer the original scent because when I wear my clothes they carry a natural, clean, soap smell. I live and work in a mining community. So it's common place to end the day with coal dust clinging to my clothes. Tide gets my clothes clean and keeps me looking good.
First, to counter other reviews who are stating the bottles are "small" etc. I did receive 2 -50oz bottles as shown in the picture. Each bottle is 32 loads. Second, Tide regular smells good. It leaves a scent on the clothes well after the dryer. I decided to buy these from Amazon during a special promotion to get an additional $3 off. I ended up paying $7.77 after tax. It was a hell of a deal and $2.00 cheaper a bottle than Target, Walmart, etc.
I bought this as a gift for my mom, who claimed she would never use anything other than Tide Febreze Sport. I can understand why. The smell is amazing! Clothes smell great and the smell lasts all day. Definitely recommend this product.
Used this Tide to get the sweaty smell out of my work shirts .Did not do a great job because as i started to sweat again strong odors came back from shirt.I now use white vinegar along with the Febreeze and have gotten better results now. I will not be purchasing this product again...
Been using Tide since forever! The only piece of legacy my mother left to me. A Box of Tide. Fear not Dear Mother My undies and other clothing remain clean and fresh smelling. Occasionally I slipped and bought other detergents but my forays down the soap aisle always brought me back to Tide. I would look at the cheap detergent in my hand and gaze at the box of Tide. I knew I was cheating! But it was cheaper and on sale! Week after week of constant disappointment and dingy clothes. Laundry day was now a chore! I thought a change was in order and I bought one of those HE front loading washing machines. Lucky Me! It came with a free sample of Tide! Was I to be forgiven for my sinful trepasses? I took it as a sign from the heavens (Fabric Softener) But still I was ashamed to even touch a bottle of Tide out in the open where everyone could see my remorse and guilt. Now here on Amazon my orders come discreetly in a brown box with a smile. Me and my Tide revel in the guilty pleasure of getting to know each other once more.. I will never stray toward that cheap stuff again. My clothes so fresh and clean clean. I know Momma is proud of me!
BACKGROUND:I recently purchased a front loading washer and dryer combination and discovered that these machines utilize a different detergent that is distinguished from general detergents by the large "H-E" label that is usually listed on the front of the product.I picked up the Tide Original to maintain continuity with my former top loading machine. Amazon has deals where you can clip coupons that give you discount on products. Sometimes coupons appear for the Tide detergents that, combined with the subscribe and save option, are capable of saving you a tremendous amount of time and money.PACKAGINGThe product comes in a package of two. The two bottles showed up in a single heavy cardboard box with a divider in the middle separating the two bottles.USEAGEI have used this product now for 4 months. So far I am pleased with the results. My family tends to develop skin rashes and allergies from certain types of detergents which they have not yet so far with the Tide HE detergents. Our whites are white and our colors have maintained their colors without the usual sever fading from heavily washing and wearing. The scents of the detergent are not overpowering but are present throughout the day doing their job of keeping you smelling clean and fresh.CUSTOMER SUPPORTNot utilizedPROS:++ Use less soap than top loading ordinary detergents.CONS:++ Can be slightly more costlyCONCLUSION:Recommended for those with front loading HE washers who want their whites to stay white and their colors to not fade.
This is the best idea for those who don't have a car nor drive. You can setup auto re-order so that you can get it delivered whenever you get ready to run out. It cleans great and since they added Frebreeze smell even better. I really love Tide and recommend this service for those who don't go out much or have ready access to a car.
Like the smell. Clean much better than other products I used before. I would like to purchase Tide again though a little more expensive than other products.
Consumer Reports regularly says Tide does a very good job of cleaning, even if it's not the cheapest stuff out there. You have to track the price, and subscribe and save is the way to go. With the 20% discount the price usually beats what I'd pay at the grocery store, often if only by a little bit. Again, you have to track the price and make sure you're getting a good deal. I've been pleased with the cleaning job it does. The clothes come out clean and smelling fresh. It's top quality detergent.
I am a bargain shopper and have always purchased other brands of detergent but NO MORE! We have a toddler and her clothes get all types of crazy stains and Tide gets them out! Period! I love the smell too!
Best to use POWDER in HE washers. Doesnt buildup in machine like some liquid detergents do...causing mold. Bosch recomends powder.
Best stain removing detergent I use. A must for this Mom.
If you like the smell of cheap dog grooming spray, then this may be the product for you. For me, I like smelling clean and fresh, so this product was a disappointment from the start. It literally made my chest hurt when I inhaled the fumes coming from the washing machine. Just as bad after a spin the the dyer. The third load I used extra rinse just to decrease the perfume, which helped a little with the smell, but was a waste of water and thus, money. Next, the product does not clean well. Please see the photos I posted. So, you will see that my white socks looked dingy and dirty after being washed in this Tide. I usually use some form of the Tide in a red bottle and never had this happen before. I had to throw all the socks back the laundry basket for the next wash day. I'll post pictures in the future if I can. I should add that I also have the Tide recommended Cabrio washer (look at the Tide site) and the clothes were still not clean. The sad part is I'm seeing these yellow Tides taking over store shelves this week. I guess the low price is big draw for most customers. Trust me, if you area loyal Tide user, you may be sorely disappointed in this product. Original Tide is only a dollar more in my local store, and I will just pay the dollar to have clean clothes with no cloying perfume. I will now only use this product for dog/cat beds and my rags. I would not use it on clothes or towels. Sorry Tide, you have a poor product on your hands with this one!
I have the most expensive Samsung HE machine available (POS!). I've gone through countless detergents trying to find one that works best with this terrible washer. I recently read that you should only use powder in front loading machines, to avoid the musty smell that frequents these types of washers. Consumer reports rates Tide one of the best, so I figured I would try it. Unfortunately, this detergent doesn't clean the clothes very well. The shirts I wore to clean the yard, came out smelling like BO. I hang some of my clothes to dry outside, and noticed flies hanging around on the clothes, after using this detergent. I used it for about two weeks, but couldn't handle the smell the clothes had in them. I switched to Arm and Hammer plus Oxy Clean fresh scent powder and there were no flies flying around my clothes outside anymore. The clothes came out smelling cleaner too. I gave this a 2 instead of a 1, because it could just be my crappy washer, but I expected more from Tide.
I'm very particular about my laundry and I'm used to using Ariel detergent.However,the price here in Amazon is too steep -given the fact this has to travel to Australia (yes, I ship detergents to where I am.I don't like what they have here).I use Gain powder before and while I'm happy with it using a normal top loader, I recently own a new front loader (not sure if it is HE but it's got an inverter motor which I take as something recent and efficient)so I went on a limb and got this.I couldn't be any happier!So much so that I am willing to iron now coz I love how clean it smells afterwards.I'm using a scent free fabric conditioner so I'm sure it's this doing the job.Must buy and worth the purchase and shipping to Australia!
OK I should have read the reviews better, I thought this was the big box and I was getting a deal on the price. This is the really small box of detergent not a family size at all. I would not purchase this again.
I recently re-discovered Tide in powder form. I can't say enough about it. It's the best! I love the smell, it cleans well and you can get quite a few more loads than the detergent! I also love that often you can find a coupon and get this product at a reasonable price. I have so many times tried cheaper brands or just simply wanted to try...
My husband is always telling me that it's fine to wash laundry in cold water but I prefer to wash them in hot water. Now I know any laundry detergent can be used in either hot or cold water but I was still curious to try this one out. I honestly didn't notice a difference. I only buy Tide laundry detergent and I usually use ones with Fabreeze with no problem but just like the.... I believe Lavender one... I didn't notice a scent and it performed like any other Tide detergent would.
Ok I am a guy who does his on laundry. I always use tide even when I travel abroad. Tide has always been dependable, strong, and an amazing fragrance. This new tide is ok. I was skeptical but I bought two bottles. It's just ok. Does not remind me of tide at all. I am a fan of tide with baking soda in the cream bottle. Tide should bring it back.
I had to go to 12 different stores before I finally located these (not knowing they were available on amazon). My first load to test it was old worn out t-shirts that I believed were simply beyond redemption and white t-shirts with a lot of yelling stains that were no longer reacting to beach. I was astonished at how bright and white everything was - a towel that I thought was beyond rescuing looks new! They are pricey, so I will save them for when things are starting to look worn out again, but these are a valuable tool in your laundry arsenal.
Have used Tide powder most of my life, switched to unscented as soon as it was available. Got a great deal on this, which is why I tried it. Would buy again.
I love this detergent and how it leaves my clothes fresh for days. The HE label on the packaging is a bit hard to see, but other than that it is great!
I bought this product hoping that it would help "boost" cleaning my laundry but in fact, it made it even worse. After a few uses, I realized there was white residue all over my dark clothes, especially my black dress pants. I thought maybe something was left behind in one of the pockets or in the washer since I share the laundry with other tenants in my building. However, I soon realized that it was the Tide Pacs that were causing the problem. I'm really frustrated because now I can't get the stains out of my clothes. I've spent numerous mornings scrubbing my work pants trying to get out the stains but as soon as I put them back into the washing machine, they end up with the same residue again. I've searched through the washing machine to try and find any leftover pieces of the Pacs but I haven't had any luck. I am really frustrated and I'm not sure how to fix this problem even though I've stopped using the Pacs. I really hope that Tide figures out a solution before other consumers' clothes are ruined.
no more carrying big heavy boxes or bottles for me. at age 77 i am not as strong as i used to be so this is for me. pods are a perfect solution . my clothes are so much better and brighter now. tide was always my choice of laundry detergent. this product and brand never fails to impress me. bet if you try it you will not use anything else. well enjoy
I thought I'd splurge and buy some Tide. I do a lot of laundry and since Tide is the most expensive on the market, I don't buy it often. I was very disappointed in the results. Not sure if I'm allowed to say this, but Era Plus works so much better at getting stains out. No, don't work for Era (whoever makes it?) I just know my laundry.
I purchased Tide 2X Ultra Liquid Laundry Detergent for High Efficiency Machines With Bleach Alternative since it scored the very best in Consumer Reports magazine. I was amazed at how it removed old stains. About the only stains that it hasn't removed were ink stains, although they're not as prominent as they used to be. I'm hoping that with further washes, the ink eventually disappears.
so the main reason I bought the pods it's because its super easy to do laundry. I am currently deployed and it sucks to walk from your tent to the laundry room with your laundry, detergent and softener. this pods make my life simpler. not forgetting the fact that they are also better than measuring the detergent. using less than what you would really use if you measured it yourself. I just grab a pod or two, depending on how many loads I have, and throw them in my laundry bag with my laundry and go. no bottles or boxes to carry around. no measuring or leaking detergent...just throw it in and done. That should be their motto &quot;throw it and forget it&quot;. just love this pods and I would suggest them to anyone who have to walk somewhere to do laundry. they get my cloths clean just like tide has always done. about the smell, I haven't paid attention because for that I use the softener crystals that I just add in and they make my laundry smell like clouds in a sunny day. not sure of what clouds smell like but I'd imagine they smell good. but back to this pods, just great, I would suggest that if you have kids, keep this detergent away, I've heard of kids thinking its candy because it's so colorful. but if you're a responsible parent and keep harmful things away from your child's reach then you have nothing to worry about.
I recently purchased a High Efficiency Washing Machine (HE) and I needed to purchase the correct detergent! I was afraid of the prices of HE detergents but I was pleasantly surprised by Tide HE April Fresh scent which came in a twin pack coupled with a clipped coupon!Smell: The scent is soft and very fresh, your clothes smell much nicer and I am satisfied with how my clothes smell after laundry.Price: A few bucks cheaper than the stores such as Walmart, pretty good deal especially if you happen to be purchasing stuff Amazon anyway.Cleaning power: As HE detergent, you don't need to use as much and it is specifically designed for HE washing machines.Shipping: Shipped efficiently, no nonsense and very secure.Pros:+Cleaning power+ Efficient+ Smells great+ Decent PriceCons:- None YetI am very satisfied with my purchase and will look towards Amazon for future detergent and cleaning purchases! 5/5 Purchase
I purchased the tide after months of using the cheap store brands (Sun, Great Value) because i thought laundry detergent was all the same. wow was i wrong! this stuff is amazing, smells great and my clothes feel softer. I would purchase again and the price is hard to beat as well
So -- according to Consumer Reports Tide offers one of the best cleaning abilities of all the major brands. I have used a lot of different brands (all the typical ones [Tide, Gain, All, Cheer etc.,], naturals [7th generation, Charlie's, etc.,] and have made several homemade versions). I'd say of all the ones I've tried, Tide Mtn Springs and Charlie's are my favorites. Tide for the smell and cleaning power, and Charlie's for the best cleaning I've encountered.The thing is, while Charlie's cleans so well, it has no smell -- great for folks who are sensitive to perfumes -- but I'm a sucker for smell-good laundry. So Tide it is for me!I would say the price on here is very high; you're definitely paying for the shipping, plus some. For comparison, I purchased at WalMart, on 01/15/13 the 96 load box of powder for $18.00. Paying $21.00+ for a good bit less is hardly a good price.Summary: LOVE the product, but Amazon is not offering a deal at this time.
I love tide, clothes come out clean and with downey in it the clothes come out soft, smelling good, and you don't need anything else (dryer sheets etc) to make them great to wear. Yeah it's not as good as if you put a whole dose of downey in the wash but just about and no dryer sheets? Perfection in my book. No static, no nothing. Just great clothes that smell good, look good, and feel good.
Love tide pods. Everyone in the family can use these. No measuring, no messy lids to clean like liquid soap. Great product.
I've used other brands and had spots on my clothes and had to rehash to remove them. I thought I would pay a little more for the Tide brand with hopes to not waste so much water. I was wrong! Nt only did I have to rehash clothes that were spotted, also I've had 3 loads I couldn't save due to the pods not dissolving and sticking like super glue. My clothes were stuck together and wouldn't come apart. I was able to run very hot water over some to unstick them and them had to run another cycle to wash it all out. However, I just washed a new set of King size luxury Egyptian cotton sheet set and the same thing happened again! I tried to separate the material but again it was like glue and TORE my NEW sheet! I'll NEVER RECOMMEND OR USE AGAIN!!! Furious!
I've used other brands and had spots on my clothes and had to rehash to remove them. I thought I would pay a little more for the Tide brand with hopes to not waste so much water. I was wrong! Nt only did I have to rehash clothes that were spotted, also I've had 3 loads I couldn't save due to the pods not dissolving and sticking like super glue. My clothes were stuck together and wouldn't come apart. I was able to run very hot water over some to unstick them and them had to run another cycle to wash it all out. However, I just washed a new set of King size luxury Egyptian cotton sheet set and the same thing happened again! I tried to separate the material but again it was like glue and TORE my NEW sheet! I'll NEVER RECOMMEND OR USE AGAIN!!! Furious!
I love the Tide Pods! They are a little pricy but I save money because I use the correct amount everytime. Before I would use a lot of soap sometimes then have to wash my clothes without detergent every once in awhile. Less soap means more money for me and my clothes look better as well!
I've used other brands and had spots on my clothes and had to rehash to remove them. I thought I would pay a little more for the Tide brand with hopes to not waste so much water. I was wrong! Nt only did I have to rehash clothes that were spotted, also I've had 3 loads I couldn't save due to the pods not dissolving and sticking like super glue. My clothes were stuck together and wouldn't come apart. I was able to run very hot water over some to unstick them and them had to run another cycle to wash it all out. However, I just washed a new set of King size luxury Egyptian cotton sheet set and the same thing happened again! I tried to separate the material but again it was like glue and TORE my NEW sheet! I'll NEVER RECOMMEND OR USE AGAIN!!! Furious!
I tried the detergent today, I love the scent. Not very sure about the effectiveness as I was not washing soiled clothes today.
Works great at getting my clothes bright and clean. Love the scent after washing. definitely a good value for the size for my HE washer. Thanks!
I love the tide but it seems that they came a little lite on the weight. They were taped down, nothing spilled! excellent delivery. But I have to find out if some was removed prior to shipment.
Helps me score touchdowns and pick up chicks! Got me a raise at work! Won $10 playing scratch-off lottery! Gentle on my sensitive skin!
I bought this product because I had a good coupon for it. A couple of days ago I spilled salsa down the front of a white, knit shirt. I thought the shirt was ruined! I took it off, sprayed it with Tide Stain Release and let it sit until I washed whites again. I forgot to check it before I tossed it in the dryer. I was just certain it would show signs of the stain. Not so! I cannot even tell where the salsa was. Finally--a product that does what it says it will. We've had good results on other stains as well. I'm always surprised at what it can clean up--without damaging the fabric! I will ALWAYS have a spare bottle of this on hand. Hats off to Tide for this one!
I buy this all the time, it has a great scent, and clothes do tend to come out cleaner.
This is a great bundle. It is everything you need for great smelling laundry. Opening the box was like a blast of great smelling perfume. It was pleasant. The great thing about Pods is that the amount of detergent is already measured for you. No more using too much and wasting money. I was already a purchaser of the dryer sheets, so getting more was great. The Downy scent booster does a great job. Overall, I like this bundle. It would make a great housewarming gify.
Cleans well and is efficient. Keeps me from using too much!
I have to go to the laundry mat and this is an easy way for me to take laundry detergent with me. I am wheelchair bound and have to carry my clothes on my lap, so this is better than a box or bottle. It is lighter. Plus it does a very good job of getting your clothes clean.
Excellent soap and strong lasting fragrance. The laundries were cleaned. Would give it 5 stars but it is a little expensive.
I've used Tide for probably my entire life through college and into my now late 20's and I've not had many complaints. Still no real complaints, I've just found what I think is a better product. Tide gives you a recommended load amount in reference to a full cap load. I just started using a fully concentrated product called 'Legacy of Clean', I think it's off brand or something, not really sure yet, but it does one heck of a job and one 130oz bottle has lasted me 6 months so far at roughly 6 medium-large loads a week.
I READ CONSUMER REPORTS AND I GOT AN ISSUE RECENTLY ABOUT HOW WISK DEEP CLEAN OUT WASHED TIDE..IVE USED TIDE ALL MY LIFE AND I WAS SCEPTICAL SO I BOUGHT SOME..THEY WERE RIGHT IT WORKS AS GOOD AS TIDE AND IS A COUPLE BUCKS CHEAPER..I WOULD SAY IVE USED 300 PLUS OUNCES..DIDNT WANT ANYONE TO THINK I DID 1 LOAD OF LAUNDRY AND THAT WAS IT..
Cleans good, not as good as original Tide but close . Not sure about the scent yet .I'll have to try the other scent they offer in this formula before I decide .
I have always used Tide - when I was a kid, I knew we were in trouble with money when my mom would pick anything else, so I stick to Tide, like she did. The pods are terrific. I do add fabric softener, but that is because right now we are without a dryer and the softness is needed. I do not need any stain remover anything with these pods.
Tide is hands down the best laundry powder out there. I searched several stores and most don't even keep it on the shelf (only liquid). So I was pleased to find it and be able to purchase on Wal-Mart.com. Ordered enough to get Free Shipping and it arrived within just a few days. Thank You Wal-Mart !
TIDE is the best but ERA comes close for a lot less coin.
I've used Tide for a long time. Compared to other detergents, I think it does the best job.
TIDE IS THE BEST PRODUCT ON THE MARKET....
While this product does not automatically remove all stains (and you will need to pre-treat any major stains - which is why I gave it four stars instead of five), it works beautifully on whites and bright colors to keep the hard water from staining/darkening the clothes. It also removes minor stains and dirt without pre-treating. The thing I love most, however, is the lighter fresh scent. I don't like an overpowering scent to my clothes, but have a teenage son and a husband who is a runner - both of which make for very stinky clothes. I have a high-efficiency washer and the regular scent Tide, which I prefer to use, does not get the strong BO smell out of their clothes. One of these duo pacs thrown in with the load of clothes takes ALL of the stink out of the clothes without an overpowering perfumy scent. I would definitely recommend this product if you have an athlete, a teenage boy, or hard water.
Most people put too much laundry detergent in, thinking more is better. Now that 32 load box or bottle actually ends up doing 25 loads. I first bought the trial size bag and tried a few loads. I used one for normal and two for double loads. Cleaned very well. Scent is not overpowering. Also foam doesn't clean clothes so don't expect big foam. In fact that's the biggest reason adding too much hampers cleaning. So now my average cost of one load for detergent is about 28 cents!
it is cheaper to buy at target/walmart. you also get a larger size. 12.80$ approx for 80 loads (original scent, no fancy additives). this is 12.13$ for 68 loads, clean breeze scent (assuming 20% off). your choice. i love subscribe and save with home delivery. plus with 5+ items you get 20% off. there is nothing better than having something heavy delivered to your doorstep for you.
They are great" done with heavy liquid and spilling it. Done with powder and the mess it makes. Pick one up and drop it in. Beware- keep your hands dry or they will stick to you. They are a little expensive. But it probably all comes out in the wash when you have teenagers and housekeepers using the other two kinds.
I love using Tide and this size container is easy to store and the sale price with the coupon was too good to pass up.
My wife is allergic to most fragrances, and we have a new baby, so we love this detergent. 5 stars all the way. I give this 1 star because Amazon has made this a rip off. When it was subscribe and save eligible, I purchased 2 twin packs for almost the same price as 1 today. The seller is listed as amazon.com. Why no s&s eligibility, and why the ridiculous price?
We ordered thinking it was a good price on a larger bottle. Yes, we should have double checked that. Our fault. But, the problem we had was that all 3 bottles we ordered were leaking into the box. How much did we lose? Won't order it again, delivered.
This is a excellent product. I use it mostly to scrub my garage floor. It cleans better than most anything i have used within my price range. I wet my garage floor with my pressure washer and then scrub it with this product with a hard floor brush. Then i use my pressure washer to clean it off. Presto clean floor again. I also use it to wash all my red shop towels.
I like this version of Tide because of it's excellent cold water performance. It's hard to get this locally so I decided to get it from this seller based on price. The page lists this version sold as for "HE" machines but the version I received is for standard machines. I've applied for a return and will update my review based on how that works out.
THIS IS MORE OF A SHIPPING ISSUE... I am exchanging the detergent due to the entire bottle being spilled into the zip lock bag it was shipped in then leaking also through the shipping box by the time it was delivered. I was going to pour the soap from the baggy back into the bottle until I realize the lid on the bottle was busted. Liquid detergent shouldn't be Shipped.
I'm a very, very longtime customer with amazon and I usually don't have any problems with orders, but I've never ordered tide thru the mail before ... and purchasing tide thru amazon prime pantry wasn't such a success. my box of tide was crushed by the 12-pack of cokes I'd ordered (to fill in the order), and tide got all over most things in one half of the shipping box and some on the other half. feeling a little upset at having to clean up the mess, I left poor packaging feedback and took some photos of the box and contents with my cell camera and then called amazon customer service. I might have been hung up on the first time I called but the 2nd call produced a very good customer service rep who rectified the situation with sincerity and grace. soooo, yay for amazon customer service, but nay to me being left to clean up this mess! :( I think amazon will probably improve on their prime pantry packing methods on future orders. putting a crushable item in the same place with a heavy item should not have happened ... at least not without support or protection for the crushable item, and, face it, a tide box just isn't that strong. well, I'd better get back to my task of trying to clean up the mess and get the box down to the trash. :( the tide product, itself, deserves 5 stars and that's what I gave it. amazon prime pantry? you need a little work.
The worst thing about this product is it eats your clothes. After using this for 2 weeks my tee shirts were pilled and my jeans started showing threadbare spots. I even had a couple of seams come loose. The clothes were just fine before using this. I tried it on the recommendation of a friend, who remarked that the water was grey in the tub of the washing machine, and she said it was more dirt coming out. I believe it was some of the fabric. I cannot recommend Tide boost. Might be OK if you have work clothes that get grease/oil or other heavy soil, but be prepared to buy them more often.
I got a stain on my favorite blue silk dress when I was on vacation. Some sort of sauce stain. I was trying to remove stain by using Tide to Go. I shouldn't have done it!!! Now I have large yellow stain where I had used the Tide to go. I was crying, honestly. My favorite dress is ruined by your product!
I was at my 40th high school class reunion. Some of us gathered early to have a drink. I was wearing white capris and ordered a Bloody Mary. Yup, I spilled it all over my white pants. I got out my Tide Stick and went to work. It used whatever was left in that stick, but it did the trick. I was not embarrassed the rest of the night. When I got home and washed them, they came out completely white! Thank you for an enjoyable evening.
On my wedding this past June, I had accidentally sat in coffee right before the wedding ceremony. It left a huge coffee stain on the back of my dress. In a panic, (and obviously, I was trying to stay calm as best I could), my bridesmaids brought out their Tide to GO sticks. After about 15 minutes...and with about 3 "Tide to Go" sticks, the stain COMPLETELY came out. It was amazing. Tide to GO seriously saved my white wedding dress and my wedding! It is an amazing product!
Tide Pods make laundry fast and easy! Just pop one in, add clothes and you are ready to go. Your clothes come out clean and smell fresh. So do laundry the easy way with tide pods.
I loved the idea of these and got a great deal with my Amazon Mom subscription. However, I did notice that sometimes - and it doesn't matter what setting, temperature or load size I use - sometimes these pods do not dissolve all the way. I have found them mostly on the rubber well of my front loader, but I've also found them on my clothes. Luckily I caught it in time and rewashed them to get the excess detergent off. However, today I missed one and put the load in the dryer. the undissolved packet turned into melted plastic on a piece of my daughter's clothing. It looks like it's probably ruined. To those who say that I'm using the pod wrong - you aren't in my laundry room. I'm using it exactly as directed. I have a two month old front loader - so this is not user error on my part and it's not an equipment malfunction. This is a problem with the pod. P&G should go back to the drawing board on this and fix this problem. In the mean time I'm back to making my own powder detergent for much cheaper (even though I'd gladly pay the extra for the ease of these pods).
We rented a beach house for vacation and prior to leaving, we started a load of laundry with a TIde Pod in the house's top-loader washer. We were contacted by the owner afterwards that the white sheets had blue stains that wouldn't come out. We couldn't figure out how an entirely white load could get stained with blue but fortunately the owner was very nice and refunded the whole damage deposit. Mystery solved this week when we used Tide pods in our front-loader and found the seal coated in blue slime on 2 consecutive loads. We have been using TIde Pods for about 2-3 months and this is first time we've seen any blue stains. However, we have had unexplained bleached out spots on our dark T-shirts since using the Pods. I like the pre-measured concept (esp with front-loaders prone to smelling if using too much detergent) but current version of Tide Pods are unacceptable for home use. I'm going back to liquid Tide HE and P&G needs to take Tide Pods back to the product development lab.
It does not clean dirty clothes that well so I need to put more than recommended amount. I bought it because amazon had good deal but it was just waste of my money.
I've tried other detergents, but Tide always gets my clothes the cleanest. It's all I buy and I like getting it on Amazon when it's on sale since it comes to my door and I don't have to lug jugs of detergent in from my car.
Usually I'm a fan of buying anything on amazon instead of going to the store, and I haven't had quality problems in the past, but this was definitely watered down. When I compared it to the tide I bought at the supermarket, it was at least half as thick (and no, the other stuff wasn't concentrated). Very disappointed
After I ordered this, a regular chain grocery had it for $5.99 for 50oz. With shipping and using an Amazon coupon, I paid $15.07 for 2) 50 oz containers. Just goes to show not everything is cheaper on Amazon. Now let's see if moderators will actually let this review through.
This detergent is a great value. Don't be fooled by the small bottle. Stick to the correct / recommended measurements and it will last a long time. All with a name we've learned to trust.
With twins, this is a must! I keep one by the washer, and my main one right by their laundry hamper, and spray stains right as I toss their clothes in. I has helped restore outfits after tomato sauce, pureed prunes, avocado, etc. And it's awesome on their cloth, lightly colored bibs. I get the best results when spraying the stains asap, even if I can't wash the items for a while.
I love how easy and convenient the pods are to just toss into the laundry machine. No measuring, no mess. The downside to that is that if you are washing a very small amount, you don't really have control over how much detergent goes into the machine. It seems to rinse well, but you have to wonder whether it is the ideal amount for each load of laundry, you don't really have any control over the concentration of detergent to clothing ratio. But if you're not a control freak, it's no big deal, just drop the pod in, turn the machine on, and forget about it. It seems to be effective as most other detergents I have used as far as getting out stains and getting clothes clean. The only drawback, and this is subjective, I find the fragrance it leaves behind to be overpowering, artificial, almost cloying, and I don't know how to say this, but, kind of unpleasant smelling. My preference would be for unscented, so other than the fragrance issue, I would recommend this product.
Not sure what all the one star reviews are about the size of this bottle or the negative fragrance. I received the 92 ounce bottle. Does what Tide always does. My clothes are clean and fresh and with the extra Downy (I still used a fabric softener just because my washer has a place for it) they never felt softer (especially my sheets and towels). I rated this as 4 stars simply because of the Amazon price. I can get this in my local Publix for $13.99, so I don't think the convenience of having it sent to my home is worth the extra $6 for Amazon (especially since A is now charging sales tax in FL, too). Anyway, I do recommend this product to those who really want the convenience of shipping to door.
Tide Pods used to be my go-to laundry detergent, but every once in a while a pod turned out to be a dud. The fragrance was "off" and my clothes would come out smelling like body odor. At first I thought maybe I had forgotten to throw the pod into the washer the times it did this, but after reading several other reviews complaining of the same thing, I realized it really was an issue. However, when they work, they work well. Bounce has always been a good product for me. I love the smell and the softness, so no issues with those. This is the first time I've used the Downy Unstoppables (it says it's a fabric softener in the title, but it's really a scent booster). I like it, but a little goes a l-o-n-g way. Try filling just until the pellets cover the bottom and see if the scent is strong enough for you. It's strong at first, but smell nice after going through the dryer. Overall, this it a good bundle, but beware of the Pods, and remember... a little of the Downy goes a long way. :)
The price that amazon is currently charging ($20) is absolutely ridiculous. That being said, this is a great Tide product. I don't really buy into the claims that the freshness lasts 3x longer, usually the freshness is already gone by the time I get the clothes out of the dryer... That being said, Tide is still the best laundry detergent money can buy, just make sure you buy it at your local store, NOT on Amazon!!
I tried the new pod I received in the mail and loved it. I wanted to buy some more but don't want to spend that kind of money on them. I'd rather buy the detergent and get more for my money. It's too much for the amount of laundry I do. I do my husbands work clothes and pods work well. Please make them cheaper or give more than dollar off coupons !
Tide is the only detergent I use. I love how the pod has the detergent,stain fighter & brightener all in one. Right now I use Tide detergent + Tide stain release but with the pod I would only have to buy 1 product. In the long run it will save money plus you won't have to lug around the heavy liquid bottle. My laundry came out great with the pod and it was easy and convenient to use. I will definitely be buying the pod after I finish up my liquid Tide!
I absolutely love everything about Hawaii and the tropics, and Fabreze is one of the best products ever created, in my opinion, so when I saw a bottle of *Gain with Febreze Freshness Hawaiian Aloha Liquid Laundry Detergent *sitting on the shelf at Wal-Mart, I had to try it. I'm so glad I did, because it's a lot less expensive than Tide With...
Always loved tide, but never loved the price. Tide with Downy doesn't disappoint when it comes to the quality of their product. It leaves a nice fresh scent on my clothes and I do believe my clothes are softer. The only thing I never liked about Tide is the price. It is so much more expensive than the other brands. Is the quality that much better to justify the cost? I don't believe so, but that's my opinion. Overall, I really like the product, just not the price.
The product offers no additional benefit to warrant the price premium.Let me explain. First I used it on load of Adults cloth, then Children's cloth and then bedspreads. I was happy with my old detergent and happy now also. FRESHNESS: Febreze is a powerful freshener, and the manufacturer tried to extend the febreze magic to the washing world. Problem is along with a detergent, most of us add Downy Ultra Infusions Liquid Fabric Softener, Honey Flower, 41 Fl Oz . After a wash, the clothes go to the dryer where you add the Bounce Outdoor Fresh Fabric Softener Sheets 240 Count. With all these additions, any Febreze premium is pretty much washed away. Costco's Kirkland brand equivalent of the same detergent , freshener and dryer sheets all are equally good, effective and cheaper ( Kirkland Signature 2x Ultra Laundry Detergant 170 Oz., 110 Loads, Kirkland Signature Fabric Softener Sheets ). Yes, this might be a better product if you wash it in a washer and air dry it, without using a fabric softener. PRICE : The price is about $2 more than the regular tide in Costco (88 loads). The price gap widens if you buy Costco store brand. SUMMARY : The product does not have any claim that it helps restore color, safer to the clothes etc. So the product is only a cosmetic increment to their product line. The reason I am giving a 4 star is Tide brands are very good products no mistake , but the price premium on this one is not worth it.
Ever since we replaced our washer/dryer with frontloading LG machines we have used Tide He detergent for our laundry. It has always worked well with our machine. In the dryer we have always used Bounce sheets for scent, softening, and anti-static cling. So when the opportunity to try Tide Plus A Touch of Downy HE detergent arose I was definitely interested. The product sent to me for review was a single 92 ounce bottle. The one sent to me was dented up, which makes me wonder how safely one can purchase this product online, but there was no leakage or breakage. Today was laundry day, so we tested it out on colored, white, and delicate clothing. Chlorox bleach was added for cleaning white clothes, which we always use with whites, but no other additives were used while washing or drying. All of our clothes washed just as clean as they always have when using our older Tide detergent in any temperature water. We dried them without using Bounce or any other brand of dryer sheet. They clothes had a very noticeable pleasant, clean scent. They came out softer to touch than before, and there was no static cling. Overall, my wife and both like Tide Plus A Touch of Downy detergent. It launders just as well as our other Tide detergent, leaves a very pleasant scent on our clothes, and it eliminates the need for usage of a dryer sheet in the dryer. It's cost, though, is high, and especially with its added shipping charge even for Prime members it may be too expensive for many consumers. But the product does exactly what it advertises, and it launders well.
I have a front loader machine and I read another reviewers note about NOT having the white granules completely dissolve in her machine. Well, here's what I do....the instructions tell you to place on top of the clothes in the drum and NOT where the liquid detergent goes. Since I pack my loader so full...you guessed it...right into the detergent compartment it goes! It dissolves very quickly with the speed of the water passing by even in COLD water! I have been using this technique for well over a year in my LG washer! I probably average 15 loads a week and between baseball, football, soccer and my 2 kids believing the front of their shirts are a built in napkin there is no way I can pretreat everything..or find it all! I have no problems with the booster removing the mud, red dirt and grass stains from all the clothing! If I haven't crammed full my loader and doing a "normal" size load, they dissolve fine in the drum. I've just found it easier to add to the detergent cup! This is a product I would be lost without. Nice faint scent and does not fade colors.
These bundles are wonderful, cost effective!
Thank you for giving me the opportunity to try the product. With me being unemployed for 2 years now I am hesitant to spend money on new products because of finances. I tried the Pods and they work great. Will be awesome not to have all these bottles of products to get the job done. Just 1 little toss of a powerful cleaning agent and its done. I recommend this product to anyone even
This is the very best Laundry Detergent ever !!! this is a TEN 10 STAR FORGET THE 5 STAR.. I have tried everything used them all, while Tide has always been the best for removing stains, cleaning without fading and having a long lasting wonderful sent. My husband works underground electric comes home so dirty super bad he has to take his clothes off in the garage bag them until i can wash them, well before the Sport Tide i had to spray them with expensive Stain remover before washing them i used a full can a week + the Detergent and the stains would only fade a bit but never go away. Thank you for Tide Sport in the first wash all the old stains that never came out are all gone !! it's unreal just use half of what it tells you to that is all you need trust me it will last you much longer and does the same job. When i use a full cap on a very large load sudsy bubbles go everywhere so i tried a half of cap on my next load and i still had tones of suds !!!! This one is super concentrate a little goes a long way and cleans better then any other detergent hands down. FYI This is the very first Review i have ever done in my life ... It's that good ! really this should be the only Laundry used any where no matter the cost you will save it last so long and no extra busters needed. Try it you will never change again trust me.. Jen Miami Fl..
These little babies are amazing! They are so easy to use and you get the same results as the pourable Tide. Men can use this product, without supervision, on their ladies clothes! :) I will be buying this product when I run out of my Bottle.
Got these for a great price. They do their job...I always use Tide because they are the best. Got these to wash my baby's clothes because his skin was breaking out and needed to rule out the detergent.
As the parent of an active 10 year old little boy, I must deal with a variety of stains, the knees of his baseball uniform almost being more than I can handle. I had tried Tide stain release pods and spray with OK results and bought Tide Ultra stain release on a whim my last time at the store. It is wonderful! I apply the product and rub it in with the cap, and I am done. All stains have come out the first time. I have also had good results with using it as the detergent in a small load of stained clothes. This is my new "must have" product.
Our ministry bought these pods for college students who live at the dorm, Great idea for a care package.
So it's time for the small one to learn laundry, right at the same time I ran out of detergent. The big box store had these for what I consider a decent price, so I figured I'd try them. I've always been no-sort, detergent only for clothing, with the pods all the clothes have come out looking better than they have in years. The highlight was a 10yo dingy white polo with year old motor grease stains that won't come out, even with dawn. The stains are still visible, but are almost unnoticeable and the shirt no longer has the "dingy" appearance, and would be serviceable for lesser occasions again. No blue residue.                                                                     The pods are not magic, however. Sheets are particularly tough for us, as the deep embedded motor grease, sweats out at night. The pods did not get these sheets clean.                                                                     Overall very happy, and my laundry room floor should stay clean now. Right now I like the scent, but I think it could get sickening over time, an unscented version to alternate with would be nice.
I have never really used Tide before because it is more expensive than other brands. I was kind of weary on trying the PODS but I tried it and it was at a very reasonable price!!! I love it! It is all I buy now and I am working on my 3rd bag! I am planning on buying the big bowl of them next! I recommend them to EVERYONE that wants whats best for their clothes at an unbeatable price!
I used to think Tide was the best since it was for sure the most expensive, but I swear nothing seems to come as clean as it once did. After getting a new $2500.00 washer & dryer, I started experimenting with different detergents because even the most minute stains would never wash out & I have come to the conclusion that their are several others that are so much better. They would actually get the PREVIOUS stains out that Tide had not. So I have lost faith in Tide. If a detergent can't get clothes clean enough & then you try something different & it actually gets them twice as clean & gets the previous stains out that the other detergent left behind, then I am sold and for almost 1/2 the price of Tide, I am doubly sold!
This product is top rated above all others by a famous consumer magazine, and with good reason. I could not believe how well it worked at getting rid of stains, including old ones, that other laundry detergents did not get out. It even did this for stains that had gone through the dryer many times after previous washings with inferior versions of the same name brand. I was seriously impressed. Be sure you get exactly the right product, though--there are many versions. The one that works so well is Tide Ultra Plus Bleach Vivid White HE. HE versions are specifically designed for the newer high efficiency washers, and non-HE versions are specifically NOT recommended for HE washers, even if you use less soap. A non-HE product will not work very effectively in an HE washer and will tend to stick to clothing even after rinsing and will also tend to gum up the machine, according to manufacturers of both the machines and the detergents. The HE version of this combination, Tide Ultra Plus Bleach Vivid White HE, which is different from the standard HE version of Tide, is currently hard to find, but if you are being charged forty or fifty bills for 95 ounces by a non-Amazon vendor online, you are being had. It is often out of stock, but if you go to the nation's largest brick and mortar retailer--a place I thoroughly dislike, by the way; I shop Amazon whenever possible--you will find it locally for one-quarter to one-third that inflated price. Be wise, and hunt carefully--this product is excellent and well worth the trouble of finding it at a reasonable price. With time, it should be available direct from Amazon at a favorable price, too.
I have been using powdered Tide for years; this is my first venture into the liquid Tide, and, so far, I am happy with it. It is pretty mild, so I wouldn't try to clean grease or real heavy embedded dirt from clothes, but for just gentle cleaning (especially when my wife does her laundry as she never really gets anything really dirty), this works just fine. It was very reasonable (a couple of 50 ounce containers for around ten plus bucks--and shipping was free for me through Amazon Prime), so I think it is a good quality product, reasonable in price, and works for what it was made for. (And it is even made in the USA, these days you never know.)
It works well on different types of clothing and pants. I just love it! I like the original scent feeling like no more add-on. It's just fresh. The pack of 2 is an awesome idea. The price is reasonable. I will buy it again.
I have some pretty severe allergy and especially, at times, contact dermatitis. I had to avoid Tide for decades because it was one of the primary allergens that triggered this reaction in my skin. Thankfully, they developed this into a formula that works well for me. I can't promise you won't have a reaction but I use this on towels, sheets, and undergarments and so far, I have been issue-free. With regard to the pricing, I agree that Amazon's word choice on a lot of these products is misleading. It has happened to me a dozen times, at least, that I thought I would be receiving significantly more product than arrived. However, on this particular deal, I still find it to be good for the price when it is on coupon special. The coupon amount, combined with Amazon Mom Subscribe & Save discounts, make this $1 less per bottle than the cost in my local store. This is delivered to my door so it also saves time/money to drive out to the store to pick up new detergent. That's a big deal to me at this stage in my life. My advice is to watch the sales. They have been sharing coupons fairly regularly and I have had no problems picking this up at a great price multiple times over the summer.
Received it quickly and it seemed to be a better price than what I would have gotten if I purchased it at the store.
I received two small bottles also like the other buyers that left one star. If you calculate price per ounce, at least when I complained and placed my order it was priced like I would be receiving 100 ounces not 50 ounces so I of course complained to Amazon and as usual they have great customer service and promised to send me two more bottles free of charge. Since my problem is solved my five star rating is for the product not for the experience. The product is great if your kid has skin allergies like mine and you don't want to use expensive dreft for the rest of their lives. So the rating for the product is five the experience would get less but if you go through the experience and have the same problem I had contact Amazon and hopefully they will make it right like they did for me.
So I ordered this - HE detergent - back in March thinking it was a good price, I just ran out of detergent right now in September. I had opened box and kept it in the garage, But just now when I went to use it, I realized they had shipped the regular detergent and not the one for High Efficiency washer that I have. Now I am stuck with it coz I can neither return it nor use it. Word of advise, learn from my experience and dont take even the smallest thing like detergent for granted, open the box and verify you get what you ordered. Seriously AMAZON - you cant get shipping detergent right?
I would buy this product again. I would like to buy the Tide pods next. But at a good price.
Only spent 10 dollars for two bottles. Good price. And no odor I like it. Worth to buy it. I will buy it again
I'm glad that I ordered this product. I think that I got the best deal. Two for the price of one.
This is a good detergent, but it is not outstanding. When I ordered this, I thought all Tide products were basically the same. I got this at a good price on Amazon but quickly discovered it did not have a great scent or cleaning ability. It's still better than most detergents, but next time I'm ordering either original Tide or Tide Plus Febreze Freshness Sport.
This is a very good product. It's so convenient to have the fabric softener included in the product. However, I think it may be less expensive in the store. Especially if you have to pay shipping. I will compare prices before buying again.
Something that i like very much,really very good,price concessions and great value,next time well buy again,and would recommend to a friend
I recommend this product on auto-ship every 3 months. I buy three packs to keep one at my desk at work, one in my car, and one at home. These are super-convenient, work well, and priced fairly. I work in an office setting and have a bad habit of dripping coffee on myself; which can be terrible when wearing a button-down white shirt or other light color. I have had great success with these, even on a white shirt to completely remove the stain.
In reviewing this I took the cost per ounce and the quality of the product. In both cases Tide won out over the detergents. Prices in major discount stores were 25 % to 50 % more for the same item.Other per ounce prices for competetion were higher on Amazon. Truly a no-brainer to buy this item. I only gave it 4 stars because I like to have different scents
By far my favorite detergent! And this was a GREAT price I would with out a doubt purchase this again. It is the only thing that really gets my cloth diapers clean
I normally use Gain, but if Gain is sold out, my next choice would be Tide. I've never purchased the lavender scent before and thought I'd give it a try. It worked great! Even my lightly soiled whites came clean without my having to use bleach. Great price per ounce as well. Would buy again.
I started thinking about buying this after I kept seeing the commercials for them. I asked a few girls at work who have a very busy schedule and they told me how great they were, and they were right! I am a full-time student and work plus I clean and cook on top of homework. I am always busy and these are just so simple and easy to use. I hated using the liqued detergent because some how everytime I would pour it into the washer it would leak! Very frustrating, I would recommend this to anyone! Not just people who are super busy. Great product!
I love those little pods for the dishwasher, but hadn't yet crossed the threshold for using them in the washing machine yet. When I saw these Tide pods, I thought I'd give it a go! What a breeze to use -- no mess, no icky residue and when you use them in combination with the scented beads, the whole basement smells amazing! I've been a fan of Bounce for a long time, so no news flash there. I washed all our clothes in this bundle before we headed to camp last week and we were the best smelling family there. :)
It would be great if they made a pod that smelled like their original Tide scent...
I am very pleased with Tide Pods. This product appears to work exactly as advertised. My laundry smells fresh and cleans after each wash. The stain remover works well. I've had trouble with liquid detergents getting clothes clean in my he washer. Tide Pods go directly in the washer bowl and dispenses accurately for a very clean and fresh look and feel. The only negative aspect of Tide Pods is the relatively high price. Thank You
I have always wanted to try Tide but as you know it is the most expensive on the shelf. But at Amazon any Tide product is far less than any Tide product on sale at my 2 market places. Does it do what it says? I really can't speak to take, I am a man and dont notice those things. My wife likes it. But should it leave the Subscription I cannot buy it at the market.
Got a great deal here with subscribe and save. What can I say? Tide continues to be the absolute best laundry detergent I have ever used. I have tried many others, trying to save $$$. They never work as well as Tide, so...I'll be sticking with Tide. With Amazon deals, instill save money over the regular store, plus I don't have to lug the jug. The scent is nice, light, not overbearing. Yay, Tide!
I've been using the Spring Renewal scent for about 4 years now and won't use anything else. The smell is GREAT!
We like this product and always shopped sales for it. With Amazon subscription it is always on sale and gets shipped free on a regular basis. No running out.
Don't waste your money on any other brand, or off-brand laundry detergent. Tide is the ONLY laundry detergent that gets your clothes clean. Also, it makes your clothes smell clean and fresh!
I might be one of the few people who has never ever used Tide. Receiving this via Vine has changed that. I actually liked this a lot as the addition (I feel) of the Febreze really helped remove unwanted odors in the loads I have washed in it. Its a bit "floral" for my husband's liking, so I will use the other one I also am reviewing for him, its more of a "fresh scent" detergent. But I, myself liked this. I also felt it did a good job in my HE machine...another plus.
This has the cleaning power you expect from Tide with a clean great scent. I have purchased it several times now from Amazon and after applying coupons found on Amazon I have paid much less than what it costs in stores. The detergent is always securely packed so I have never had any spillage or damage.
Tide has been a hands down favorite in our family for generations. Recently, penny pinching has led me to try other (cheaper) brands. I would stand at the laundry display and lament the cost of Tide compared to the bargain brands. When this affordable Tide showed up on the shelf, I was delighted!!! I bought one to try it, and it delivers every bit of the cleaning and deodorizing power of the Tide I have loved since my Grandma did the lundry! GO TIDE!!! Way to make an affordable option! I love this new product and will NEVER buy a cheap-Oh-NO!! again! Thank you.
I live in western Africa where the water is very hard on clothes. Everything I have has a muddy cast to it. I decided to try this to brighten my results. I washed 2 white tee shirts and they stayed white! I will definitely continue to order more of this.
I ordered this by accident, but will be happy to purchase again! My clothes are soooo much whiter now! Amazing!
I tried these pods for the first time while on a business trip. On a new pullover shirt pods left residue ie "goo" because it got wrapped up in my shirt. I used them in a white load and pods left purple blotches on almost everything. The commercial washer was not overloaded and was using warm water. These pods are clearly a bad product that ruined my clothes at very worst time.
I love that the Pods do not make a mess like liquid or grainy detergents. Also, the ease and quickness of their use is attractive. Most of the time my clothes are clean and everything is normal, which is why I continue using them. HOWEVER, on occasion, my whites get ruined. So far, I have probably lost about $250 because of this. I am planning on purchasing a separate detergent specifically for my whites :-(
this is just like the ones you buy at CVS or wherever you buy laundry detergent. I love this stuff and it works great especially when you have sensitive skin or excema
You have no idea how many shirts I saved because of the use of the Tide Pen.
My nine year old daughter talked me into buying her a white coat and throughout the winter, I have not been able to return the cuffs to their original glory, no matter how much I scrubbed. So, tonight, I decided to try out my Pod sample to see if it really 'brightens' as claimed on the packaging. I wish I would have taken a before and after picture. It is AMAZING!! I am a believer and my daughter has a white coat again!!
We have been using this detergent for years, so I speak with august authority when I say that this is a great soap. Tide manages to squeeze a lot of extra money out of customers, but in this case at least delivers you substantial savings since you do not have to use hot water to wash your clothes. It works perfectly, you would never be able to tell the difference from a piece of clothing washed in warm water, unless maybe you work around Fukushima surrounded by mutant giant squids. We don't have the squids, but we have two kids with a penchant for seasoning their soccer clothes in their duffels for days "forgetting" to wash them, unless prompted with threats of punishments worthy of Dante's Inferno. Well there they go, in plain cold water and off they come clean and fresh. If a detergent can cope with that kind of stuff, say no more.
I tend to use the dye/perfume free detergents because my skin is sensitive. I like this one as even using it with unscented dryer sheets still leaves a faint fresh scent and gets clothes a bit cleaner than other detergents I've tried. A great buy.
I always use tide, and have tried the pods, for about 6months but will not buy anymore they always have one or two the bust and then they all stick together. then you lose about 10 to 12 pods because they all stick together.
I have purple stains on three t-shirts and one blouse. These items are no longer wearable in public. I have tried 3 different commercial stain removers and one home made stain remover to no avail. I finally broke down and used bleach (twice!) to see if the stains would come out. No such luck! I am incredibly disappointed with the pods and will never use them again. These pods could not have gone through a very thorough product testing or the testers would have realized the problem with the purple staining.
I bought a small bag to Tide Pods because I was curious about the product. Much to my dismay, my clothes stunk to high heaven after washing them with this product. I actually had to make a special trip to the store to buy a box of your tried and true Tide Plus Bleach Powder to rewash the entire load. Awful product, never again!
I luv my tide pods!! i always use it ! I live in lima but i always use the tide pods cuz my cousin always send me lots of packs , because i think that the tide pods is the best deterget ever!
I bought Tide Pods for use on vacation as a convenience. The first time I used them I found a bluish slime on a pair of khaki shorts. I thought maybe I had left something in the pocket. Then, after washing a very expensive set of white sheets, I found the same blue stains all over them. Then read the reviews. I even tried putting a pod in a pan of boiling water to see just how hot it would need to be to dissolve. After 5 minutes in a rolling boil there was still blue plastic residue on a spoon. Would never buy again!
I have been using the Tide Pods for quite some time and have had no issues. I drop it in once I start the water in the washer and then put in my clothes. I have had none of the issues some people have had with the "purple spots". I use them in every load of laundry and I think they work great. Very easy to use and generally last much longer than a bottle of liquid detergent. I think it's a great product and will continue to use them.
Works okay but my clothes do not come out particularly "bright" or "vivid" as suggested by the label. Can't help but wonder if this is a lower level TIDE than the regular. Was very inexpensive. I think there are likely better detergents than this.
WHY WHY WHY? did you change Original Scent, Tide, HE Powder? You had a perfect product and you ruined it! What gives with the blue specs? It looks just like Tide with Bleach Powder and the new scent is too strong! Tide has been a household staple in many homes in the US since 1946 and has always been white! I will NOT be buy again!
Tide does what it advertises. It gets out the dirt. I don't have to use as much Tide as when I've had to use other brands so the cost is about even with the cheaper stuff and the clothes look better using Tide than when I use the cheaper stuff.
Tide is the only detergent I will ever use. It is cheap yet it still is a great brand . It is quality detergent that I would recommond to a friend . I will defineitly keep on buying tide.
This product has cost me more in ruined garments then it has ever saved me in time. The product leaves plastic like residue on my laundry that does not come off. Will not use again.
I don't quite understand all of the rules of doing laundry. I do know how to operate a wash machine and I value having my clothes clean. I have never had a problem with Tide and it does not cause me to break out in a rash. Cold water Tide is nice because it saves on hot water and has proven to be an effective clothes cleaner. I never have to question which detergent I will buy.
i have a child so as any mom or parent knows there's always something to was the price was great so is the product big fan of tide ..i will definately b ordering again
I loved Tide, and have been happy with every version of Tide I've ever tried. This version met my high expectations. Not only do I not waste hot water when I'm washing my clothes, but the stains that were there lifted, and it left a really nice scent on my clothes. They come out soft, smelling good, and with stains lifted. You've got to buy this!
Based on the marketing, I expected Tide with Febreze, Spring & Renewal to combine the cleaning power of Tide with the strong scent of Febreze. What I found was a product that produced the cleaning results that I expect from Tide, but only a whiff of Febrezes scent. I tried the detergent with a variety of laundry-load sizes. When only a few items (less than 10) were laundered in the washer or hand-washed, the Febreze smell was pleasantly pronounced. But, as the number of laundered items increased, the pungency of the scent decreased. By the time I was washing a large laundry load, the scent was almost absent (even when using a full cup of the detergent). The good news is that Tide cleaned the clothes thoroughly, regardless of the load size. Thus, based on its cleaning capability, Id recommend its purchase. Just dont expect your closet or even your laundry basket to be smelling like a bouquet of flowers after using Tide with Febreze, Spring & Renewal.
Bought the new Tide Simply Clean & Fresh it doesn't even come close to regular tide for cleaning actually bought two bottles and returning one it smell good but doesn't do its job NEVER BUYING AGAIN
No need to do the whole baking soda/powder, vinegar, and laundry detergent thing....tide boost does it all and it is so easy and the results blew my mind. i love this product and have been recommending it to everyone i know. the price is a bit of an issue but overall worth it!! my husband also loves the results. he used to complain about his socks and whites not being white enough or grease stains that wouldnt come out. he likes that and i like how easy and effective it is!! great product. i would like to try the tide pods and compare pricing/results. thanks tide!
I love these pods!! I don't consider myself a lazy person at all. And of course, pouring detergent into the machine is never a &quot;chore&quot;, but I HATE doing laundry. So anything that makes the process easier is something I will try. These pods go straight into my front loader washer and I've never had an issue. I just love that there are no huge bottles to lug around, no possibillity of liquid detergent leaking everywhere (i've had that happen and that was NO FUN), and it doesn't take up much room in my laundry room. I love them and would recommend them to anyone looking for convenience. Now as far as cost, they can be a bit more expensive. However, I'm happy to be paying for that convenience.
My mom always used Tide but as an adult I never buy it because it's so expensive. This does do a great job cleaning, but the scent is just okay. It doesn't really seem much like Febreze. The numbers on the cap are very easy to read so that is helpful. It seems like all of the reviews on this page are for different products. The one I am reviewing is Tide+ with Febreze for standard washers. Just to clarify, the ones with Febreze do NOT contain any fabric softener. Tide does not do a very good job of explaining on the bottle which is for HE machines. If you're confused, the ones for HE machines will have the HE symbol on the top of the bottle below the cap. That is the only way you can tell them apart.
We live in a region with very hard water. I have figured out that getting my 10 year old son's stains out requires extra detergent, so a large soiled load of whites in my front load washer requires 1.5 full scoops of powder detergent (works better on dirt; oils are best washed with liquid detergent) and 2 of these packets. I don't have to individually treat any of the stains - blood, grass, mud and food come out perfectly! The only things I've had that these don't get out are ink and carrot baby food. I save so much time over when I used to have to spray each stain, that I can do the laundry before work or right before bed and not miss anything!
I've used Tide to Go for quite a while with wonderful results. BUT, when I assisted an elderly neighbor and her dog from an attack by stray dogs last night, wasn't thinking about my favorite white jacket - which ended up covered in blood. As soon as I got home, treated the blood stains with Tide to Go, most of the blood came out. Poured Tide Laundry Detergent directly on the remaining stains and immediately laundered the jacket. It's cleaner than clean - I was amazed since it wasn't supposed to work well on blood. But it did - and I can't thank you enough!!!
I had search the supermarkets and the discount stores of Walmart,Target and K-Mart for the Tide pods in the 90ct. but found they didn't carry the economy size. I like the ease of use and don't care to go to the store every two weeks or so for more laundry detergent, nor lifting the package. I was glad to find just what I wanted on Amazon and the price was good along with delivery to my door. The shipping packaging was just perfect for delivery no damage and secure. Later I found the same product at the local Sams Club store, but I only go there if I am purchasing more than one product. The ordering this way saves me on gas in driving, lifting and and time. I do laundry every week and so does my adult daughter for my grandson who is seven along with herself. The economy of this volume is economical great for my family and my laundry habits.
This is probably one of the best things that I have bought. I just dropped the pod in my washing machine, added my laundry, and I was done. The pod disolved after the wash which made it very convinient. I didn't have to look for my measuring cup, measure, then pour...what a process. Just drop it in and your done. Clothes came out just as clean and smelling good! Never going back to powder.
Tide Pods are great! So easy to use and so convenient. The Ocean Mist scent makes all my laundry smell so fresh! I will definitely continue use Tide Pods!
I recently purchased a front load washing machine and the clothes do not smell fresh when I put Tide in the detergent dispenser. However, the Tide Pods are placed directly into the front load washer with the clothes and the outcome is wonderful.
I think it's the best detergent I've ever used w/ the Febreeze in it (and April fresh Downy, lol) EVERYONE loves how my clothes & bedding smell.
GREAT CLEANER.
I will confess gladly: I am a minimalist when it comes to laundry. I don't sort, I don't prewash, I don't put those little cloths in the dryer that makes everything fluffly, and I *definitely* don't iron. I prefer instead to wait until my laundry basket is full, throw it in the washer, and go from there. I am also an environmentalist. Some years ago we upgraded to a high efficiency washer/dryer set, mostly because we liked the idea of conserving water (and partly because we liked the fancy turquoise color they came in). We also chose to use the cold water cycle almost exclusively, partly in order to save electricity but (if I am being honest) largely because of the lazy/minimalist laundry strategy described above, which basically requires a cold water cycle if you're going to mix colors. So, I have to use a detergent designed for cold water and high efficiency machines, and Tide's detergent fills the bill nicely. I like the "fresh scent" a lot; it is not heavy and overbearing as you find in many other detergents. It does a great job of getting the clothes bright and clean. I don't have problems with colors bleeding. And I like being able to use my minimalist approach. I like even better that I can make my children be responsible for their own laundry as well with a minimum of effort on their part. I only have one (small) quibble with the detergent. Tide recently changed their packaging, so that the *only* difference between regular cold water detergent, say, and the cold water detergent designed for high efficiency machines is a teeny-tiny little circle on the neck of the bottle that says "he". Otherwise the bottles are identical. The old packaging made the high efficiency detergent a lot more salient and actually said "designed for high efficiency washers" to make it obvious. I hate to admit the number of times I've grabbed the wrong bottle off the shelf, and (trust me on this) you don't want to put regular detergent in a high efficiency machine.
This product is worth the higher price -it smells wonderful and feels like my clothes are even cleaner and fresher --- highly recomment
I've used Tide "forever," probably because my mother used it and it's what I was used to getting. It was a no-brainer to get the "new and improved." I don't notice a whole lot of difference; I don't spend that much time thinking about laundry. I have no insightful observations regarding Tide Plus Febreze. I will always buy Tide.
This is one excellent liquid laundry detergent. Tide is the Cadillac of brands. It may cost slightly more, but worth it. They are becoming more concentrated, making for lighter packaging and less needed. This new Febreze Freshness has a very pleasant scent, in the bottle, and its effect on washed laundry. I will no longer use cheap generic powders on some laundry, I am switching over 100% to Tide. Recommended. And, it is Tide!
We were looking for an environmentally cleaner laundry soap but wanted one that wasn't scented with peppermint or lavender and this fit the bill. It cleans well and seems to remove some stains etc., no better than regular laundry powder but no worse. Its a bit more expensive per load, not much, but enough that buying the 2 pack of these took some consideration of our tight budget. All in all, this is a great alternative to conventional laundry soaps/detergents and even a good alternative to the hyper-natural soaps/detergents like Molly's Suds or Charlie's Soap. I figure its not as hypoallergenic as a washing soda based laundry soap but is better than regular Tide.
That's what I would give this product if I could. I am a very busy mom of 3, and always in search of ways to save time, money, and clean-up. I was thrilled when I saw a new product on the shelves at Sam's that would help me avoid the mess that comes with the larger, spout containers that I normally buy, and had no qualms about buying the big package, because I trust the Tide brand for quality. Well... lesson learned. One pack didn't get a load clean, so I had to switch to two. Then I noticed that the packs weren't dissolving completely. I tried making the loads smaller so there would be more water to dissolve them, hoping I could find a way to use the packs until the box was finished, but even this didn't help. I ALWAYS wound up with the sticky mess, and if i didn't catch it before putting my clothes in the dryer, I wound up with a rubbery blob stuck to my clothes. After ruining four shirts this way, I gave up and have the almost full box sitting on the laundry shelf, adding to my list of things to dust. So much for saving time- rewashing clothes that have sticky goo on them, and saving money- using twice as much detergent and replacing ruined clothing blew that apart. All that's left to do is to look on Pinterest for craft ideas for my unused Tide Pods.
I love this detergent for my baby's delicate skin. This was a great buy and I will purchase this again.
I love Tide and have used it most of my married life, 47 years! My mother used Tide and I followed in her footsteps. There is no better washing product for my clothes than Tide. It will get out stains that I thought would not come out or ones that I missed. I do not have to pretreat them either to get them out. I will get a free sample of some other products in the mail but they are not my Tide and I do not change over. Why change when you know you have the best!
This is the best smelling tide formula! I use it for everything and it is gentle for delicates but removes stains and cleans as well as all Tide products.
I didn't know the box was that small but I had a coupon and wanted to try out the automatics shipping. I love Tide!
I guess I will start by saying that I love Tide detergent. I have tried almost every other brand of detergent but nothing performs as well for me. The bargain brands don't perform well or you end up using more product or you have to rehash because clothes did not come out clean. The comparable brands just didn't seem to do as well as Tide. This is a great powder detergent and it leaves a nice light scent too. I guess I am old fashioned in preferring the powder but the little gel packs just did not do it for me. I like the liquids but I have a tendency to spill and it is a mess to clean up hence I lean toward powder. If you don't like a scent then I probably would not go for this one but if you like just a touch of scent this is great and has great cleaning power.
I bought pods for the convenience. I have ruined two pairs of my good jeans when using the pods. They left white bleach spots which do not go away. I will not be buying them again.
First, I find the smell of this product to be pleasing. This is quite relative to personal preference, but still it's by no means too strong or offensive. Cleaning power ... it's done a great job taking day-to-day stains out of children's clothes, and keeping our clothes nice and fresh!
I do and have done quite a bit of laundry over the years so I have some experience with detergents. Think about how expensive a load of clothes is and how hard or impossible it would be to replace certain items and then think about what you are using to clean them. I don't need the best cleaning as the clothing is rarely soiled to that extent that a top notch cleaner is needed but I like the lack of dyes and perfumes and that CR rates at or near the top. Recent studies show that it has 89 ppm of 1,4-dioxane which is a carcinogen and may pose a health risk. Oddly Tide F&G is allowed to use the EPA's (environmental purchased agency) Design for the Environment label as it contains less than 100 ppm.
I used this for the first time and it works great. I used with my liquid detergent and it made my socks bright and less dingy looking and the colors were more vivid. The Socks and whites I used hot water but the sheets and towels I used cold water and it still worked great.
I will never worry about the detergent staining my whites, my husband adding to much or not enough detergent again. I get the best price for my Tide Pods on Amazon just wish it was a subscription.
I tried this sports apparel formula a few times and its horrible. I purchased this to wash my Nike DriFit workout clothing. As is common with performance fabrics, they would come out of the laundry seemingly clean, but would develop a stale odor after about an hour's use. After washing, the clothing came out of the washer with an absolutely overpowering sweet/floral odor which didn't go away after line drying. When I wore a shirt laundered in this stuff to the gym, I became "that guy" - the one who wears strong cologne to the gym. About an hour into the workout, the awful Tide odor abated and was replaced by the same old stale odor. I ultimately found that a specialty detergent called ProWash actually cleaned the workout gear. Its expensive, but I limit its use to the workout clothing. Meanwhile, the Tide sits on the shelf and will probably be rinsed down the drain because the odor is so overpowering that I can't see using it on everyday laundry.
Since it's supposedly free from dyes & perfumes and "specially designed for sensitive skin", my wife and I've been using Tide Free & Gentle for our newborn's and our clothes for the past 3+ months. This detergent seems to clean as well as the regular Tide (not that we have much stains to judge by), and it also works well as a pretreater for baby "accidents".However, I noticed today that this detergent has a health grade of "F" from EWG (Environmental Working Group), stemming from asthma, skin, and toxicity concerns.[...]GoodGuide grades it 5.4 out of 10 (10 being best).[...]FYI, the overhyped BabyGanics is even FAR worse (even higher toxicity & other concerns):[...]For "healthier" alternatives: GreenShield, Seventh Generation POWDER (liquid had D grade), and Method--among others--have laundry detergents rated highly.I'm not saying using this Tide detergent will start liquifying your organs or something. My 3-month old baby's been fine (no rashes or anything) with this detergent. But if you're using this with the assumption that's it's healthier or greener than regular detergents, especially for babies, you'll want to try something else.I'll personally use the remaining 2.5 containers of this detergent for my wife's and my clothes, but use 1 of the 3 other laundry detergents I'd mentioned for our baby.
Although right in the title it says its powder, I must have overlooked that. I thought I had ordered pods. My mistake. However, the packaging isn't great. You cut open the top but there is no way to reseal it so you just have to store it open and hope it doesn't tip over. But it did do a good job cleaning. Doubt I'd order it again b/c of the packaging.
Like the name says, it leaves your clothes simply clean and fresh. I love it. The price is great too. Good job Proctor & Gamble. Just keep the price low.
I was initially pleased with Tide Pods when they first came out. I bought them multiple times, and did not have any problems. Recently, I bought a new package of Pods, and have had nothing but complaints about it. In the 10+ loads of laundry I have completed (in both hot/cold temperatures), there has been hard and sticky residue left upon my clothing. I then have to re-wash the items by hand in order to try and get the detergent off. In addition, MANY of my clothes have been stained purple and orange. I have tried bleaching items to remove the stains, but have not been able to clear the stains completely. I am extremely upset and disappointed with this product. I will no longer buy Tide Pods after so many of my items have been permanently ruined. Something that was meant to be so simple and easy to use has turned into making laundry more work than it needs to be. I would NOT recommend this product to anyone.
I have always used Tide, my husband works in construction so Tide works great on getting stubborn stains out. I also have kids and it works great on their clothes as well. Here recently I have noticed blue stains on our clothes and sticky stuff on them as well. After accusing my son of leaving gum or candy in his pockets I realized that it was from the Tide Pods that I was using. I have ruined numorous items from the Pods not dissolving properly and I will no longer be using this product due to the fact that I cannot afford to purchase new clothes every time I wash. This was a great product at one time but not anymore. Don't change something that is working.
Everyone in our family has been able to always use any brand of laundry detergent. With a family it was getting expensive because we never even got close to the number of loads that a detergent bottle said it would wash. I know I use more than necessary. A few weeks ago at the store I decided to get the Tide Pods, thinking that way I would know we got our monies worth of use out of them. However, it turns out that my five year old son is having allergic reactions to the Tide Pods. He has developed a nasty rash from his armpits, torso - full chest and back, and down through his thighs. The only thing we have changed is the laundry detergent. I am not sure what is in the Tide Pods that is different, but I have bought a separate detergent for my son's cloths until we use all the Pods up that we purchased, and then we are NEVER purchasing them again!
This product is horrible. I have used it to wash sheets and towels. It faded the colors, made them look like they had bleach put on them or were tie dyed. I just bought a new set of sheets and used the pods, it ruined them before I even got to use them. It makes sense when you think about it. This pod is sitting on your laundry why its dissolving its concentrated formula right on the laundry. It has ruined about $500 worth of towels and sheets. I will never use Tide products again.
DO NOT USE on light colors. It discolored my clothing. Very expensive, brand new clothing. It is okay to use on dark dark colors but it leaves stains on my lights. It stained blue streaks. Ive been using Tide for years, never had a problem. Then I decided to try Tide Pods. Big mistake. I will be looking for the receipt to return. NEVER AGAIN.
I would recommend Tide Free and Gentle High Efficiency Unscented Detergent. The quality and quantity exceeded my expectations and I would order it again.
Sent me another Tide brand because they ran out if this one. Also made returning a hassle. Was not happy at all.
Ordered these a few days ago when they had an amazing deal + coupon.... Ordered original scent and received 2 50oz. bottles.... Ordered via prime and got these super quick! Way better than having to run down to the store!
This is an excellent deal IF they are delivered full. Mine arrived box soaked and open and about 1/3 of the tide left in the slippery bottles. Not sure how to get refund without having to pay to return the empty bottles.....Definitely NOT worth it!!!!
The smell of the new Tide Plus A Touch of Downy is terrible. The scent is SO strong that wearing clothes washed with this product makes my eyes burn. I have been buying Tide with A Touch of Downy for as long as it has been made and have loved it. Tide has ruined this product since they recently introduced the Plus Collection. I will be looking for another detergent.
This is the best there is. Anything else I've tried falls short. It does the job it should do. Sure, there's cheaper stuff; but I doubt there is anything any better now available.
This Tide is perfect. Does it's job a wonderful job I recommend to anyone looking forward to buy many more from here on Amazon
I love the Tide Boost Free packets that you just toss on top of the load. They work GREAT with hot water and keep my white clothes and towels white. They don't work well in medium-temp water (which is what I use for colors), so I just use these for whites. I have come to depend on them and can no longer find the unscented version in the stores, so I am very glad to be able to get them from Amazon!
I ordered the product as shown above in 18 count packages. What I received was packages of 10 count in an older version of this product. At least three quarters of the bags are in a deteriorated condition. Each square packet inside the packages is yellow or brown instead of the white color they are supposed to be. I won't take the chance of even using them in my washer I paid $25.00 shipping for this order. I refuse to pay that kind of money to send them back and I don't know where to send them. This has changed my desire to order merchandise through Amazon. I will stick to the used books I need for my book club.
The pods wash clothes very clean and leaves them smelling great and like new
This brand has a long lasting scent, after days of washing the clothes still smell nice.
In college I used the Purex detergent sheets, and this year converted over to the Tide Pods. The smell isn't overpowering (important for me!), and even with my sensitive nose I don't get headaches from this scent. The pods are so easy to use... no more lugging around a laundry bottle. Just toss a pod or two in the basket and you're ready to go! I've never had problems with the colors leaking, and I use the pods on my work clothes (all black), whites, and weekend clothes (colors/brights). I use front-loading HE washers, and throw the pod in with my clothes before starting the cycle.
I have been a Tide user for years. It is the only brand that I am not allergic to. I love the smell of this product and it makes it so easy to use with the drop in PODS. I have waited a long time for a product as easy and convenient. I love Tide and would recommend it anyway but the PODS make it that much better.
I have been using the original scent Tide for 20 years. But this "spring renewal"scent with febreeze smells awful. It ruined my batch of laundry and everything had to be washed again with an extra rinse cycle.
I love this product and the fantastic price with online coupons and subscribe and save! Delivered right to your home for a better price than ypu can purchase it at a store. Fantastic product!
I like this product, my clothes smell good, and one less step and cost to my ever smaller budget.
Tide & Downy All in One makes it easy, our laundry is soft, clean, and smells wonderful. Works great with our front load Maytag HE washer.
Went on a trip last year and bought some of these with me. They are excellent and work really well on stains that happen immediately or within an hour. finding out something exploded in your suitcase is terrible, but having one of these will save the day. Hard to find them in stores - so glad amazon was here for me! I will say that I tried to buy them from a 3rd party vendor on here (Top Rated Bargains - beware of this seller!) and not only did they not send them to me but they never responded to any emails I sent them. I had to reorder these through amazon as the vendor (which I will try to do from now on). Haven't tried them on set in stains yet
I use Tide anyway so I decided to try these and they make mesuring non-existant . These make it easier to monitor our soap use. 1 or 2 per load means saving money which I don't have alot of and this helps. I love that the clothes smell so good. One of the first things I washed was my bedding and the smell lasts such a long time.
I am a long time tide user,before they had liquid. It's a tried and true laundry soap that keeps all my clothes, and fine or heavy laundry clean and fresh smelling. I love being able to order on line shipped free to my home :)
These products are great. The Tide Pods are easy to use and seem to clean well. The Downy scent booster is good for towels and sheets, but a bit strong for clothing. The Bounce sheets are my favorite dryer sheets.
There is an overwhelming amount of fragrance in this set. Likes: - Tide pods. They are convenient and work well in our HE front loading washing machine. - Bounce sheets. Still one of the best fabric softeners. Dislikes: - Not a big fan of the Scent Booster (black and blue bottle). However, if you like a ton of fragrance in your clothes, you'll probably like this. - If you use Tide + Bounce + Scent Booster, you end up with an overwhelming combination of fragrances. Best to use these separately. Suggested use: - Use a fairly plain smelling detergent as a filler. Use bounce sheets for some items, and an extra bit of the Scent Booster for others that you want to smell extra good (e.g. drapes?). For other wash, just the tide pods alone should suffice.
awesome, product will buy again
I love Tide but usually stick to the regular Tide. I gave Tide with a touch of Downy a try and pleasantly surprised. I am not a fan of Downy in the wash but I do use Downy dryer sheets as I love the April Fresh smell. The April Fresh smell was light and not overpowering and it made my clothes feel soft. I will definitely be using this Tide again.
Why did you change the smell from the original scent that it use to be? That always smelled so fresh and so clean. Why did you take 6 loads away? It used to be 78 and now it's 72 Why change the deep orange color? That new lighter orange looks like it cheaper, and now not worth spending the money. Heres an idea give the original scent back, make a 110 wash bottle ( for those of us that do a lot of wash those extra 38 washes make a difference), put it back in the dark orange bottle.
I think the prize is unbeatable and it comes with big box with lots of fluffy staff and air cushion make it almost impossible to break the bottle during shipping and handling. I will definitely buy it again in a few months.
It appears that $1 more gets the 180 loads box. Tide is the best. It smells like blue sweet tarts and flours, cleans the best, and in general makes my clothes more clean than anything else. Stains that have been in my clothes between multiple washings are gone using this stuff. The trick is to make sure and dissolve it well in water before you put in the clothes - either mix it in the washer and let it fill up a couple inches, or mix it in a jar of water and pour it in once the washer and clothes are fully wet. This prevents white spots and allows for an even distribution of soap.
I purchased the largest tub of tide pods and they were all stuck together couldn`t seperate them without breaking them getting every where i feel i wasted alot of money for nothing to say the least i was very unhappy with product i only bought them because i had purchased a small bag of them and they were great so i decided to buy a large container of them BIG MISTAKE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
I chose 5 stars because of the great value you get with your money with this product. Tide does the job intended and by using less liquid than what you would have to use with any other brand. I would recommend this product for anyone who does laundry and wants a great scent with a positive finished product. I will be buying this product again in the future.
The new scent on the Tide with a Touch of Downy April Fresh is horrible. Why would you change it from the original? I have used Tide for the past 15 years and have always loved it. I loved it even more when you added the Downy to it. I will not be purchasing this product again. Ever. I cannot stand the candy-like sweet smell. Really disappointed.
I bought these when there was a $2 coupon and love them. I'm super careful about keeping my white laundry loads completely white and never use bleach because it has a tendency to yellow over the long run, but our whites were getting dingy. I noticed a difference the first time I used these. Our whites are so white that they glow. Even clothing that is several years old is much brighter. I use the pods if I have laundry with white and color stripes and the color does not fade. It doesn't seem to brighten the colors noticeably, so I don't bother if I'm not washing stripes. I also do not use them with dark loads. These boosters do not have a noticeable fragrance but do have a noticeable impact on whites. I'll definitely be purchasing again!
good product. good value and smells great
I am deployed to Afghanistan. Laundry detergent is frequently unavailable in our base exchange. A large tub of these last a long time. I just throw one or two into my duffel bag with my dirty laundry and off I go to the laundry room. No measuring, no mess. Tide cleans all the dirt and sand from my clothes and they smell great!
the pods are great to grab and bring to a laundry mat. the smell is amazing and my clothes smell fresh and clean.
With the inclusion of Downy (a touch, as the product name specifies), this detergent is great simply because you don't need to worry about adding fabric softener to your laundry loads. It's just like any other of Tide's line of detergents but this one is a little different due to the inclusion of softener. There's no leftover residue after wash and even after a day or two of remaining folded in a laundry basket, the pleasant "April Fresh" scent remains in your clothes. The main thing about this detergent is that it's a very pleasant addition to doing laundry in general and it does the job very well when it comes to getting your clothes clean. Totally recommended.
I love this new product! I have a 4 year old and sometimes have to wash things twice or pretreat them with Oxy to get them clean. Not with this product! They came out clean the first time! It also smells wonderful! Move over Tide I have a new laundry detergent.
i am usually pleased with tide so i thought i would try it with downy. unfortunately it kind of smells like cat litter. aside from the scent it works just as well as other tide products that i have used.
Most of the reviews here seem to focus on the price point. Tide is offering a bargain product with a premium brand name. Who doesn't want to save money. Believe the few reviews that complain about the awful smell. "Simply Clean & Fresh" smells like antiseptic -- menthol or a terrible, chemical pine smell, and it is strong and long lasting. I tried to use scented dryer sheets to get it out of my clothes. If you are tempted to save money by buying this, do yourself a favor - open it up and take a whiff before you purchase. If the overpowering industrial cleaner smell doesn't bother you, you will save money over other Tide products. I have never smelled a "refreshing breeze" like this one, and there are less noxious baking soda based laundry detergents out there.
Was afraid that Walmart didn't send the correct detergent as "He" sticker was on the back of the bottles. Not the cheapest detergent out there, but the best.
When I was in my homeland, my mother also use this brand, Tide. Walmart has the competitive price compared with other supermarket. I love walmart.
I had a horrid plumbing issue and had a full load of laundry that was NASTY! After lugging the soaking wet load to the washer, I popped in the tide pod sample that I received. Now I realized that this was setting high expectations for a product that I was testing but the results were amazing. Shoes, towels, clothes all came out clean and smelling fresh. No hassle with pouring in the soap and hoping I had enough for that disgusting load, great stuff! I give the tide pods an A, easy.
I loved the new Tide Pods the smell is great, no fuss or mess you just pop it in and is done the only reason I did not give it 5 stars is the price, I don't think I could afford this product but if I did I would not hesitate on buying it :)
I bought a large bag of Pods and did numerous loads of laundry last weekend then noticed that ALL the clothes, towels and blankets have a strong smell like rubbing alcohol. It is horrible. I LOVE Tide Liquid detergent and will stick with that instead. I would recommend you start with a small sample of Pods to see if you have the same experience. Don't waste your time and money like I did :-)
The first thing that I was struck by when I took the pod out of the package was the smell. The smell with this product was very strong. I wouldn't buy it unless Tide offered a scent-free version. The pod was also sticky, and left the scent all over my hands. I was expecting something akin to a dishwasher pod, but this is far less durable. I wouldn't toss this into a laundry basket. The pods do work well, though. The packet completely dissolved, and cleaned a pretty large load of clothes.
I love how easy it makes laundry for me. I also am always looking for ways to help the environment and these produce less waste so I love that about them!! They smell great and no mess!! They dissolve great even in cold water which is what I use most of the time. These make laundry much easy for those who have to use a laundry mat too!! No more lugging that heavy detergent bottle around. I'm glad I tried them!!
Bought the Pods....thought they were great....loved the convenience..loved the smell...but the pods left a terrible residue on my front loader....still have not been able to remove all of it....a very big disappointment..spent an hour to remove it...and it is still on my machine...would not recommend this to my friends....
Overall, I really enjoyed using new Tide Pods Detergent. The smell was wonderful and I trust the Tide name to get my clothes their cleanest. But the thing I loved the most was the fact that there was no mess from pour/scooping. In fact, the only thing that kept me from giving it a full five stars would be the price I found them in the stores. Once the pods are more equivalent to the other detergent, I will probably make the switch. Until then, I think I will stay happy with my regular Tide.
I USUALLY WASH WHITE CLOTHES LAST SO I DECIDED TO USE THE POD AND NO BLEACH. I WAS SUPER SATISFIED WITH THE RESULTS. THE CLOTHES WERE BRIGHT, CLEAN, STAIN FREE AND SMELLED WONDERFUL ! HOW EASY. I AM CHANGING MY SHOPPING LIST TODAY. THANKS TIDE.
I love this detergent. It is the best detergent I have used to get the stains and smells out of work and sports cloths. I do have difficulty finding it though, so when I find it I buy several.
I bought this product because my daughter plays softball and her uniforms and practice clothes get extremely stinky. The product smells good in the bottle, so I was really surprised when the clothes and front loading machine stunk after I used it. The clothes almost smelled worse after I washed them, kind of like a mildewy/urine scent that is hard to describe. I have tried to use this product on several loads and have had the same outcome. So disappointed in this product because all of the other Tide products I've tried have been very high quality. Thankfully the Tide Washing Machine Cleaner made my machine smell good again; and I have switched back to the Clean Breeze scented Tide that makes my clothes smell clean and fresh. I actually came to the website to read other people's reviews to see if they have encountered the same problem that I did. Apparently I'm not the only one who thinks that it makes clothes smell terrible. I feel like I wasted my money on this product.
I love Tide but Tide Sport makes the clothes smell and can't wear them because they stink. I now switch between Tide w/ Downy and Tide Total Care and I love the smell and seems to be working with keeping my clothes clean. I won't use Tide Sport again. Maybe Tide should offer small trial bottles for new products so they can be tried first instead of wasting money on a product that doesn't end up working. Just a thought
I love the scent and cleaning ability of this product! Just one problem....I just had to buy a new washer, and it's an HE....I cannot find the HE version of this detergent in the stores that are local to me :( So, I had to go back to the regular-works well but doesn't smell as nice Tide with Bleach Alternative :( But, I'll keep on looking! Thanks for a great product!
My laundry used to have a faint moldy smell after being washed. I tried everything from cleaning tablets to using bleach with the clean cycle. Nothing worked. Then I tried the Tide HE Powder Detergent and the smell practically vanished with the first load! Tide powder HE works 100% better than liquid HE for me. The clothes smell just like they used to with the regular washer I had and they actually feel cleaner. The only problem is that the powder formula is hard to find and the store I buy it from only carries regular scent. Please send and make more powder HE scents and make bigger packages! Thanks!
I love Tide products. They clean as they profess they will and I feel I get what I pay for. I am rather sensitive to certain smells however. Smells that are on shirts and up around my face are especially hard for me to handle. This mountain spring scent is one of those unpleasant scents. It doesn't smell so bad in the bottle, but when it is...
I love Tide with a Touch of Downy. The smell and feel and cleanliness are great. I feel that Tide is the best laundry soap on the market, but I am disappointed with the higher cost, but I usually buy it anyways cause of the quality is enough higher to justify the added price. The Downy scent is very good, but I think all Tides soaps are high...
I HAD SOME MAKEUP STAINS ON MY WHITE PANTS THIS MORNING AND I BOUGHT THE TIDE PEN, THINKING THAT IT WOULD WORK. WELL IT DID NOT, IN FACT IT MADE MY PANTS WORSE, FIRST DAY WEARING THEM AND I GOT THE PEN TO REMOVE THE SMALL STAIN AND IT LEFT A HUGE YELLOW RING. NEVER BUYING A TIDE PRODUCT AGAIN AND NEITHER WILL MY FAMILY,. I EVEN BOUGHT 2 ONE EXTRA AND I WILL BE RETURNING BOTH, TIDE I WILL NEVER BY ANYYYYYYY PRODUCT FROM YOU AGAIN!!!!!!!!!!!!!! VERY UNSATISFIED, AND PEOPLE DONT BELIEVE THE LIES
It looks like its been used... It leaked ....
Love it. Love it. Love it. I hate pretreating stains. This stuff takes care of stains if you wash the item within a few days. It has even resolved 5 year old stains on our hand me down clothes. This bulk item is definitely less expensive than anything in a store.
i always used a detergent and a good fabric softener. with this i feel like its an all in one and i don't need to add anything else to it. my laundry smells delicious and it fights the dirt really well. i have 2 boys and this does a great job on their dirty clothing. my new favorite!
OK.now.To all those folks that don't like the smell of this Tide.Please stop dating guys with a cheap cologne and travel.Preferably to Europe,where clean laundry and clean house smells just like this Tide.(I used Refreshing Breeze).It is so nice to find something for a change ,that just reminds you of clean airy house and clean sheets ,that you remember from your childhood. So for all non travellers -that is what clean smells like in Europe. And by the way ,all the cheap colognes truly are just trying to make you smell clean.Duh!!!!! BRAVO Tide ! Finally clean is now in America.And my clothes and sheets are just coming out of washing machine beautiful and bright.LOVE IT ! Please keep the quality coming ! Thank You.
I really like this laundry soap. It makes my clothes smell amazing! I only wish it was available in more walmart stores so I wouldn't always have to order it online
I wore a white shirt to work, and, not thinking, leaned over my take out cup of coffee to grab something off the truck floor. Of course I got coffee smudged on the front of my shirt.I was not only already at work but getting ready to meet a very high end client for my boss, and needed to make a great impression. Thank goodness I have Tide To Go sticks, cleaned it up in just a minute and dried very quickly! Thanks SO much for a great product!
I am completely sold on the PODS love the product.
I live with Earl 48, Earl Jr 14, and Kobe 11...the "tide pods" are my EYES to make sure that my husband & sons do not kill the clothing or washer. Eye Love It! Eye Pods!
I pretty much only use Tide Detergent for my clothes, and this HE Detergent is no exception. Cleans great, smells great, and works fine in my regular washer (doesn't sud as much). Highly recommended.
For years I've been trying to find something to get deodorant stains out of shirts. I've tried just about every trick (read both natural and chemical remedies) and this is the only one that has been able to get it clean every time. It even takes care of old stains that have been through the wash before. The only thing I haven't really had much luck on with it is baby poop. For some reason that stuff just doesn't want to come out with any cleaners I've tried. Despite that, I still give it 5 stars because of the deodorant aspect.
My husband and I are very messy, and we have two messy little kids as well. This stuff is a life saver in returning our clothes back to like new condition after a day's use. The only reason that I didn't give it five stars is because I wish I could spray it and throw it right in the laundry. I actually need to soak and scrub it first to ensure that the stains will come out. That being said, I have yet to find another product on the market that gets stains out this well, even if you soak and scrub the same way.
Awesome but pricey. The product smell really good and it works very well. It's pricey but I will order it next time.
I just used pods today for the first time and at first I was skeptical because I was wondering if that little thing would clean all the clothes. I have two little boys and boy oh boy do we have stains. Well I did a wash with a pod and the stains were gone. They are nice for traveling because they have a stain remover with the pod so there is no need to carry an extra stain remover. I have to say they work well.
I bought this in a panic before a trip, but ended up at target before leaving. At target each downey spray bottle was only $2!! I was frustrated at how much I spent on this combo
Most dryers are located next to washers, therefore the most common place for easily available laundry detergent is on top of dryer. Tide pods melt together if even slightly warm. Solution, if this happens place them in refrigerator, they will easily come apart.
Tide Pods are the newest thing out there. And for people out there who are saying that tide pods leave a gel residue after you're done washing that is a lie. Keep making tide pods and lots of them.
My family wasted laundry detergent in the past but not with Tide Pods, Thanks a million for helping me save.
I personally enjoy the ease of "Pods', however I would like to see "Tide Free" in Pod form.
I have a front load washer and use as directed but they have gotten stuck on the rubber gasket on the door which is.a gooey mess. I like them when they work but this has happened to me four times and they also left a big blue stain on a white dish towel. Tide needs to Work on this issue.
I have never use anything but tide since I learn to wash on the old wringer machine. My husband has tried to get me to use cheaper brands, but I could never bring myself to tried them, since I was satified with tide. Now I am not phyical able to do laundy , My husband is doing it and guess what he uses, of course its tide.
I always buy Tide w/downey and loved the slight scent. I just bought this new formula and the smell is very strong. I don't like my clothes to smell like my laundry detergent. Looks like I will have to buy a new brand. Too overbearing!!!!
A guy I have dinner with occasionally devised a bib for himself made out of a napkin, string and a couple of clips. He keeps offering to make one for me, but I don''t want to be one of those "old guys" who can't keep his food from dribbling down his front so I always turn him down. The other day while eating a piece of strawberry pie and, despite my best efforts, strawberry juice dripped on my white pants. My dinner friend gave me one of those "I told you so" looks and laughed. I then whipped out my Tide togo and in a few moments the stain was gone! Who needs a bib when you've got "togo" as backup!
The Tide to Go Pen is a great product but I spend more on replacement having to buy another because of the cap that always comes off. , I have contacted TIDE and they have not changed this product defect.
I just started to use the pods about six to eight months ago. I was a bit hesitant because the pods that you throw in the dishwasher did not always break down completely in our dishwasher. But because we moved to an apartment we noticed the chambers that hold the detergents and fabric softener would often become clogged. So I decided to give these pods a try and was not disappointed. They break down in any water temperature, clean well and smell great, so I would definitely recommend.
These pods are extremely easy to use. We have a HE front load washer and use one pod per wash. It makes the clothes smell soooo good that we stopped using dryer sheets. Just take them out and put it right in the dryer. The scent doesn't last forever maybe a couple of days (a week max) and then it becomes not so noticeable but it's OK for us. We did notice one time that the plasticy wrapper did not dissolve completely but, I think it was because we put the pod after we loaded the washer. We have been using them for over two months and that was the only time it happened. There were times when we picked "cold wash" and they seem to work fine. As far as I can tell, the clothes come out clean.
We have been using Tide Pods in my household for about 3 months and WE LOVE THEM. My husband actually introduced me to these and I'm glad he did. We try to keep these in the house as much as possible! They work great with not just tide detergent but other detergent as well and it leaves our clothes smelling great! I can't seem to understand why some people have given the pods bad reviews because I wouldn't want to use anything else!!
I used to avoid pods because they appeared to be more expensive than the liquid. When I can buy at 25 cents per pod from Amazon, with free shipping my price complaint is answered and I can enjoy the ease of use and quality of the product. Even boys baseball uniforms including socks caked in sweat and dirt come clean.
I love these pods...Fast and easy...walmart makes it a whole easier than dragging these home from the store
Love the smell of these pods so I gave 2 stars...but it has stained all of my white clothing and T-shirts with purple streaks. I don't use any other products with my laundry either. I will not purchase again.
I love this product! It's a little pricier than other detergents but it's so worth it. I love the smell, the fact that there's no measuring.. I can just throw a pod into the wash. I can look into the bag and count how many loads I have left until I need to buy more. It leaves the clothes well washed and lightly scented. It also makes the washroom smell good when washing clothes.
Love the smell of these pods so I gave 2 stars...but it has stained all of my white clothing and T-shirts with purple streaks. I don't use any other products with my laundry either. I will not purchase again.
Love the smell of these pods so I gave 2 stars...but it has stained all of my white clothing and T-shirts with purple streaks. I don't use any other products with my laundry either. I will not purchase again.
I like Tide. I have used other detergents and came back to Tide, because I found in the long run it's a better value. It may cost more, but it works better than other brands and so I find it's worth the extra money spent. However, I have tried the new pods twice now. I don't remember which scent I chose the first time, but the second time I chose the Alpine Breeze. This time I am noticing that my cotton clothes seem to have retained an odd smell. It's hard to describe, but it is definitely NOT pleasant. The best way I can find to describe the odor is that it smells like a homeless person. None of my clothes had this smell before I laundered them and I cannot think of any other reason they might smell this way. I definitely won't be using the Alpine Breeze scent ever again. Most likely, I'll just go back to using the liquid Tide. While I like the convenience of the pods, I just don't find it measures up to the additional cost for me.
I have always liked Tide. This is the best smelling laundry soap. No messy spills or splashes. One pod or two if really soiled clothes. Drop it in the washer close the lid, and wait for the washer to signal it's done. So easy and very quick on a busy wash day.
I ordered this because it was the only laundry detergent with even a hint of breast meat on the package. Much to my surprise (and pleasure obviously), these actually smell like EXACTLY like VICTORY. Just like they say they do. Here's to the good people at Tide! Thanks for finally letting everyone else share in the lovely scent of winning.
I have two active boys so when I saw this product I couldn't wait to try it. I washed our clothes in this and my husband came home complaining that is clothes smelled like they sat in the washer too long. So I rewashed all the clothes put them right into the dryer. No it is this product. I thought my son puked on his shirt, but it was the sport liquid. I have used Tide for 20 years but I will never use this type again. It smells good in the bottle, horrible when you wash your clothes in it.
This product is awful unless you truly love the smell of this detergent. I mean really love the smell. I have had multiple people tell me that I smell like incense after using this detergent. I told them it's my clothes. They could rub their fingers on my shirt and the smell stuck right to their fingers. I tried double rinsing my clothes, but the scent remains. It has taken 2 washes w/ scent free detergent to rid my clothes of this horrid smell.
Love the fact that I have this on hand when I need it - No mess with a box that you have to keep up with the measuring cup or a big bottle that drips whenever you measure. I have a subscription so I never run out which is great when I decide to go on a whole house cleaning binge! - Best part - clean fresh smelling laundry - now if I could subscribe to a folding service life would be complete
I use this stuff to clean my hockey gear. If you've never smelled hockey gear...well, it's not pretty. My teammates tell me I smell like "a Jolly Rancher." Ok in all seriousness, it works miracles when it comes to making your laundry smell great. People who I have shared Tide Sport with usually end up using it on all their clothes. That's how good it smells. It cleans just like Tide, so if you're trying to get grass stains out of football gear, you might not notice a huge difference, but if you're trying to make stinky sports stuff (or work clothes or anything) smell INCREDIBLE, this is the right product!
I use this with my HE washer. It smells really nice and I bought it for the price and the home delivery. When the price went up, it was more economical to buy locally.
I love it, but I prefer the scented detergent. It gives it that good smell. Gotta have that good smell. Really, the detergent is to get the oils off my clothes. High Efficiency is great, I assume it means its even more concentrated since you can use less....
I like the fact I get this automatically in the mail. I haven't run out yet. Smells great. The clothes get really clean
This is my favorite product for washing clothes. Smells wonderful and does the same great job Tide has always done.
I have tried other detergents because of price or someone recommended them I always go back to my Tide. It cleans my clothes and leaves them smelling good!
packaging was not secure for inside the box some had spilled out. so I won't recommend this to others, but it is nice having more then enough and my clothes smells wonderful. just wish it hadn't spilled out.
I really wanted to like this product. I love the extremely concentrated nature of it (only 1T for a full load!). It is heavily scented, but I really like the scent and I like that I can smell it on my clothes after they're washed and dried. Unfortunately, though, I can smell other things. One of my kids is a bed-wetter and the load still smells like pee after being washed with this Mrs. Meyer's Lemon Verbena. I never had that problem with Tide. So, we're switching back.
I kept myself stpcked up on the vanilla and lavender scented detergent, which was previously packaged in a cream colored container. I have searched high and low and was so disappointed when I could not find it. I came to the P&G website to inquire and was delighted to find that the product is still available, just in a different package. this is my most favorite scent, love how clean my clothes smell. I am not a big fan of vanilla, but blended with the lavender, this is the cleanest most pleasant scent of any laundry detergent I've ever used. Thank you P&G for keeping this on the market, love it!!!
I love Tide Sport! My clothes smell fresh all day long and when I take my clothes out of the dryer my house smells wonderful! Can't stop smelling my clothes. I have two employees that have bought it now and a friend. I highly recommend this product and want everything to smell like this!
I usually purchase Tide original HE, but the April Fresh version was the only one left on the shelf. Now I know why! It is so heavily perfumed as to be revolting. I washed my sheets first, and kept waking up all night thinking "What is that SMELL?" but there was no way to get away with it. My teenage boys are going to freak that their clothes smell so overpoweringly girly. Sadly, I had to buy the large box. This detergent and its in-your-face scent is going to last a long time, I'm afraid. Yuck.
I can say that I am a truly satisfied customer when it comes to Tide simply clean and fresh laundry detergent. I can honestly say that I haven't really been a fan of Tide in the past. Usually my detergent of chose was Gain but I will be switching over to tide. I love everything about this product the Smell, Price and the end result of my clothes. The only thing that I would suggest is to make a larger load count. So I won't have to make so many trips to the store.
Tried the Refreshing Breeze and LOVE IT! The fresh smell last for days even after you wear your clothes. Love the clean...not perfume like...smell. Washed my sheets 8 days ago and they smell like they came out of the wash today. Great price, great product, just can't say enough....
Just bought Tide Simply Clean. And want to say if you have grease, oil, heavy odors. This product is the best. I have mechanics and chiefs in this. House. So I deal with oil, Greece, food, dirt, just name it. Simply clean takes the grime out and still smells good. Excellent work Tide!
I was conflicted about purchasing an additive to my usual Tide detergent. It seems to me that a premium brand detergent should have all it needs to give one clean laundry, meaning that whites come out as white as they should, etc etc. So, it was with some misgivings that I tried this product and found that all whites emerged brighter and smelling fresh. I suppose if things continue in this manner, we'll be buying additives upon additives, manufactured by the same folks who say that their detergent is spectacular. However, after using this product, my Jockeys practically glow in the dark.
I've used this several times, always making excuses. Oh, it must be an old pen, maybe its just the wrong fabric to use it on, etc. etc. Unlike other reviewers, I have not had issues with the cap falling off. I do have two issues with this product, that to me make it worthless. 1. It leaves the treated area slightly discolored (until you wash it, at least for washable fabrics), which is almost more noticeable than the stain itself. 2. It smells. Bad. Like really, really bad. My coworker used it and had to change. It's very strong and very unpleasant. It's distracting. I know it's not a fluke. I've purchased 4 pens in my life and they're all the same. I've heard the same from others. I'm surprised More reviewers did not comment on the stench. This is not something I would waste my money on. Very disappointing product from a company that continuously releases great products.
First time using tide to go and I did not like it. It did not remove the stain plus it left an awful smell on my clothes.Just for my luck I decided to use it at work everyone I worked with could smell it.First and last time I buy this product. I was not satisfied I was dissapointed
For some reason I can't find coldwater 2x anymore. I was hoping walmart had it, and obviously in the name it is 2x. However, I received regular coldwater. Still washes well, and maybe the coldwater and coldwater 2x ultra may in fact be the same thing, I still wanted the ultra 2x. No walmarts near me, so shipping back three of these would've been a hassle. Regardless, washing with coldwater is effective and saves on heating bills!
I love that I can buy these types of items on Walmart.com. Will be coming back often to replenish.
Really works well to remove stains from clothes, especially my sports kit.
I really like this bundle. The Tide Pods are very easy and convenient to use. They dissolve just like they should without leaving any residue or soapiness behind. The scent is nice and fresh, just like the Bounce Sheets, but it's not overwhelming. If you put your nose right up to your clean laundry you'll smell the freshness but it's not something that lingers in the air. Some people want it to linger while others don't. I'm fine either way. If/When you use the Downy Unstopables, you'll notice the scent a lot more. It's a very nice scent though. Once again, it's not overwhelming but you will smell it a bit in the air but it's so nice and fresh. It does a pretty good job as a Fabric Softener. I love using it on my blankets, sheets and throws. It makes them smell great and feel really soft. I think this is a really great bundle and I would highly recommend it.
At first I didnt really think these small packs would do much, so I purchased the smallest bag available just to give them a try! I love them! I am shocked that they worked so well. I noticed my clothes were much brighter and to top it off.....my husband's dairy work clothes even smelled great! I dont think I can ever go back to regular detergent again!
I love TIDE we have a towing/mechanic business, my husband & son come in SO GREASY my husband won't wear coveralls so his jeans are BLACK. I use Tide, I have a hand scrub brush use a small amount on the worse stains, even the set in ones, use Tide Boost also and his clothes come clean and fresh smelling. I've tried Many other detergents, high & low cost and nothing works as well as Tide. I'm always looking for tide coupons thank you for such a WONDERFUL PRODUCT, YOU MAKE MY BUSY LIFE EASIER. my husband brags about how clean his blue jeans get and I get the praise!
My boyfriend of 5 years has very a strong b.o. Ive tried everything from washing laundry with baking soda to oxi-clean, the smell still stayed. Now that I have bought this new HE washing machine it was time to switch our detergent.I was so happy when Tide plus febreze freshness along with the tide in wash booster packs removed all the smell from his clothes. He says "It smells like a girl, but that's good!" Thank u tide for making a great product. I also use both to wash my puppy blankets.. There are no unwanted sents from her kennel. thanks again.
Great product
This is Tide - only better! I've used Tide in the past and it is my all time favorite laundry detergent. It consistently gets clothes clean and fresh. Rarely am I unable to get a stain out using it. I really like this combination of the Tide and Downy. It's still a great laundry detergent with a bonus. Since Downy is a favorite fabric softener of mine too, I was pleased when I saw the two combined. The April Fresh scent has a pleasant fragrance. It's just right, not too strong or heavy. It leaves clothes smelling fresh, whether dried outside on the line or in the dryer. The fragrance lasts too, clothes and towels stored in the closet still have that fresh scent long after being put away. I am very pleased with this product. I will buy it again!
When I saw this I ordered it because I figured it was a sure bet. Tide is known to be one of the best laundry detergents for getting clothes clean. Downey is one of the oldest name in fabric softeners. My first load consisted of two bath towels, a cotton/synthetic blend dress shirt, a washable synthetic blend jacket, and some underwear, The Pros: Everything came out clean. The jacket was noticeably softer than before. The synthetic blend shift was very soft. The Cons: The bath towels came out a little rougher than I 'm accustomed to when using fabric softening dryer sheets. Everything had a strong, perfumey smell. I suppose that's better than smelling like dirty laundry, but too strong for my tastes. .
I always use cold water and I had a colored t-shirt that had an oily stain on it that had NOT come out in a previous wash. I used some of this Tide right on the stain, and washed a load with it. After the t-shirt was dry, the stain was completely gone. Coldwater Tide saved a favorite shirt! It's easy to use - just a cap per large load is what i use. I do like the smell- I often use GAIN scent beads but I can skip it when I use Tide. Leaves my laundry very clean and smelling nice. I don't always use Tide. It's expensive, but I do always have a bottle on hand. If I've got lightly used sheets and towels, I will use a cheaper brand, but if I've got really dirty clothes, with possible or existant stains, then I always bring out the Tide. Being able to use coldwater is a real bonus.
Needless to say, I'll never buy this again unless unscented type is offered.
Needless to say, I'll never buy this again unless unscented type is offered.
I can't think of a better word to describe these but PERFECT. They clean brilliantly. They smell beautiful and most importantly, they work like a dream. True story of an example. I recently did a load of clothes. I was folding my laundry to put away and saw that a shirt that I've had for several years was folded beside a brand new shirt that I just bought that day. The older shirt (well worn, but washed with Tide Pods) was in MUCH MUCH MUCH better condition than the brand new shirt. This soap gets into the "strings" of clothes and, in my case, my clothes couldn't have come out any better if I had them professionally laundered. Just one pod and one load of laundry. It's the best laundry detergent on the market. This stuff is truly remarkable.
we have one of those fancy, schmancy front loaders that requires the special 'HE' (high-efficiency) detergent, so this product looked like a good try... i personally try to find the cheapest stuff, and being a cheapskate old guy, don't want to spend extra money or have my clothes smelling like a fruit basket - so i don't use softener, those dumb pellets, or dryer sheets... however, with the approach of hot weather down here in hurricane country i figured my workout clothes might need all the help they can get, so i decided to try this product amazingly, i do not find the smell that objectionable, and not only do my clothes get clean, but the pre-wash objectionable smell is gone as well... i like this detergent!
I am not committed to any particular laundry detergent so have tried them all. In many instances, a generic brand seems to be good enough but in truth, I prefer Tide. It has been awhile since we have used anything but unscented and it is a treat. The laundry smells good right out of the machine and a faint scent remains in the closet and when wearing it. This is not the cheapest option but the concentrated formula cleans well, does not make me itch and doubles as a pre-treat product. It has also eliminated a musty odor from my machine which is worth the price of admission. Watch for sales, clip coupons, enjoy.
While I still prefer the original Tide scent, this Spring & Renewal Tide with Febreze smells fantastic. I've been a long time Tide user, growing up it was all my mother would use. Tide always leaves your clothes feeling clean and fresh, and the scent is instantly recognizable. This Spring Tide still provides the cleaning power you've come to associate with Tide, and the Spring scent adds a nice twist. (I knew I would like it when I pulled it out of the shipping box I would like it as the interior of the box and the packing material smelled fantastic!!!) If you like Tide, give this variation a try.
Thank you Tide for giving us the lasting fresh scent of those new "scent pearls" on the market, without having to buy an additional laundry product. This fabulous HE detergent cleans beautifully, of course -- it is Tide, the gold standard of laundry detergents -- and it also leaves a clean, fresh, pleasant fragrance on the clean clothes that lasts. Even on a load of towels, with no fabric softener adding additional scents, the load of towels dried on high heat in the dryer smelled faintly and pleasantly of the Tide Plus Febreze Freshness. Even in my hard well water. And even when using only the tablespoon of detergent (less than the cap fill line) my appliance saleswoman recommended for front loader HE machines. Recommendation: Yes, definitely, worth every *scent*.
The scent this leaves is divine, my whole closet smells good! You get the excellent cleaning power of tide, & the softener built in really works. I added no softener & I could not tell I hadn't added it. Will use again.
The scent of this detergent is very strong, and not really pleasant. It left me sneezing for hours until I took an antihistamine. It did clean my clothes, but I won't use it again. Not only do the clothes have this smell on them, I can smell it in several rooms in my house. Although I won't purchase this again, I love Tide Free and Gentle, Free of Dyes and Perfumes, 50-Ounce and recommend it to anyone with allergies.
When "Roll Tide" is heard around here, it usually means the University of Alabama Crimson Tide football team which has national fame. but when I call "Roll Tide" it means this laundry product is the very best. It truly cleans better than any washing product I have ever used, and not only does it produce sparkling clean clothes, they smell wonderful and fresh. The fact that this is liquid is also an advantage in my opinion. It seems to flow better when adding to the wash. The items come out so nice and clean it makes washing a happy experience rather than a chore. I highly recommend Tide Plus Febreze Liquid. I never intend to be without it.
I have been using another liquid fabric softener, and dryer sheets. Well, this Tide with Downy is amazing! I can smell it from across the room, on a blanket. If you dont like a strongly scented laundry basket, then this is not for you. If you really want to skip perfume and just smell like yummy, clean laundry...this is PERFECT. I cant wait to wash all my blankets and sheets in this. I may even try it in my carpet steamer!!!
It made a mess in my laundry room. Package was damaged in shipping. Only negative to online orders.
I am very disappointed in the pods!! I have brand new towels that have lost color! If you have any insight on this please let me know because I am frustrated!!
I don't generally spend much time sniffing my clothes once they've been washed and removed from the dryer, but sometimes I've noticed that the detergent I've used is lacking. I've noticed a musty scent on clothes after using some detergents, but usually there's no detectable scent at all. I was pleasantly surprised, though, after washing a load of clothes with Tide Plus Febreze Freshness Liquid Laundry Detergent. If asked to assess it, I might sound like I'm quoting a TV commercial. "It smells springtime fresh," I'd say, and, indeed, it does. My clothes were clean, and my nostrils confirmed that they were. Even after wearing the clothes, I could still detect that distinctive Febreze scent. Why wash with anything else but Tide? P.S. For the record, I received (compliments of the Vine program) one 92 ounce jug.
I have been a Tide user for many years. I am satisfied with how it cleans my clothes for the price. I like the different varieties they have come out with. This is probably not the best time of year to see how one with a fabric softener works. Not too much trouble with static when it is hot and humid! I'll have to report back on that later. I do like the fragrance. It smells very clean. I do not find that the fragrance lingers on the clothes, which is good. I wouldn't want someone recognizing which detergent I used on my clothes when I am wearing them.
I always use Tide detergent and normally stick to the original scent due to allergies and sensitive skin. However, I found that the April Fresh scent didn't cause any irritation. It smells great too! Plus the touch of Downy helps keep clothes soft.
I am a huge fan of stain removing pens, remarkable it took this many centuries to develop the technology. Normally I am a clean eater, but you know, stuff happens. Get distracted by a stupid comment of a coworker, and the next thing you know, you have ketchup on your pants. Wipe the excess off, and dab it with the pen. Easy enough. Just be gentle. I got a little carried away, and ruined the fabric on a decent pair of slacks. Shame on me, but my mistake is your gain with that knowledge! The only thing I have noticed is that I appear to get less uses out of these than the store bought variety... not that I have done scientific tests in a labcoat or anything.
Love the scent . excellent scent on the clothes mixed with the softeners
I love tide and it has been great with our cloths for years. I got tired of my boys wasting the detergent so I bout the pods. At first it worked great, then after a few times washing, I noticed blue stains under the armpits of all our white cloths. Then I noticed when we use the boot pods...we now have Pink tinted whites all over! all of my sons teeshirts are ruined and I have tried baking soda and other stain removers with out bleach to get the stain off. Nothing works. I though I was alone in this situation, however I now see there are many complaints. Help!
I love tide and it has been great with our cloths for years. I got tired of my boys wasting the detergent so I bout the pods. At first it worked great, then after a few times washing, I noticed blue stains under the armpits of all our white cloths. Then I noticed when we use the boot pods...we now have Pink tinted whites all over! all of my sons teeshirts are ruined and I have tried baking soda and other stain removers with out bleach to get the stain off. Nothing works. I though I was alone in this situation, however I now see there are many complaints. Help!
I love tide and it has been great with our cloths for years. I got tired of my boys wasting the detergent so I bout the pods. At first it worked great, then after a few times washing, I noticed blue stains under the armpits of all our white cloths. Then I noticed when we use the boot pods...we now have Pink tinted whites all over! all of my sons teeshirts are ruined and I have tried baking soda and other stain removers with out bleach to get the stain off. Nothing works. I though I was alone in this situation, however I now see there are many complaints. Help!
I don't know where Tide found the magical potion they fill these pens with but this stuff is amazing! I keep one at home and another at work. Perfect for clothes, a few swipes with this product and stains fade away right before your eyes!
I bought Tide PODS after a friend said they were easy to use. I have a front load washer so I read the instructions twice to be sure I could use PODS with it. I put the POD in the washer, then loaded the clothing in. After the washer finished up I opened the door to find a slimy whitish pink substance. Figuring it might just be from one of the kid's items I threw my clothes in the dryer. Upon removing the clothing from the dryer and folding them I found two of my white TShirts had blue and orange stains all over them. Very disappointed in Tide PODS!
From what I can glean from websites, HE liquid in a regular machine is OK, you just get less suds. But you can not vice versa the situation.
I can't get pass the scent. It didn't get out all of the sweaty odor like I hoped. It's not worth the price.
This product is much cheaper than Tide and it ranks along with Tide as #1 by Consumer Reports. I love that shipping is free and that it shows up on my doorstep!! Great job Walmart!!
I love Tide liquid and thought I'd try the powder. It does the job, smells nice, and my clothes come out clean... but I still think their liquid version is superior. Also, be sure to dissolve it first or you may end up with powder streaks on your clean clothes with a full load. I'd buy it again, but not over the liquid
The product for the cheapest prices!
I'm in an apartment building that shares one laundry room on the ground floor, so getting one of the big jugs and carrying it downstairs isn't really a great option. The Tide pods actually came out cheaper per load than some of the smaller bottles of Tide detergent when I did the math a few months ago, and they are so much easier to carry. I put a few of them in a ZipLoc bag, leave the rest up at the top of my closet where it's out of the way, and just carry the very light ZipLoc down with the laundry. We've never had to use more than one pod even for a large load in a front-loading HE washer, and the clothes come out smelling and looking just as fresh as any other detergent we've used, including standard Tide detergent. The one caveat I will mention, and the reason I knocked it down from 5 stars to 4, is that in our laundry machines, there is a small gap near the front door in which things (usually small articles of clothing like a woman's sock) can get stuck. Once or twice now, the pod itself has gotten stuck there, and we've had to re-run the load with a new pod because it didn't seem like any detergent got in to the clothes. So, if you have a front loading machine, I'd recommend placing the pod by the back of the washer. That way, by the time the pod might even make it close to the door, it will have disintegrated and can't get stuck anywhere.
I first started using the Pods at my MIL's and boy do I wish she never bought them!! It seemed like it was working at first, but I didn't realize how long it actually has been ruining my clothes. As you can see, MANY people with front-loaders are telling you that it doesn't dissolve in cold water-- LISTEN! I've been finding little plastic pieces on some of my clothes for some time now and realized it only happens to cold cycles that I wash at her house. This week I'm house sitting and praying that the gigantic purple/pink/blue stain covering at least half of HER king-sized sheet will come out! I noticed that the Tide employers had the audacity to not only remind others to not overfill their load, but to not run cold cycles in the winter! Well, 1. I know when to stop adding laundry and 2. it was 90 degrees out that day. Unfortunately I was in a hurry, so I didn't see the stain before putting it in the dryer (but I did notice a weird smell too; it must be what others talked about). If P&G is concerned enough about dissolving issues to recommend not running cold cycles in winter months (and to always use the warmest water the clothes will allow), then it shouldn't be advertised to dissolve in cold water!! How many people have to report damaged/ruined items for you to actually do something?? Giving bad advice to random reviews doesn't cut it! I will definitely warn everyone I know about this!!
I have been using the Tide Pods since the product came out. Most laundry detergents seem to be water down or so called "concentrated." I would always use more detergent then recommended because I was not satisfied with the smell or how clean my clothes were getting. I use one Tide Pod for every load and LOVE it! My clothes smell and look clean. Although, Tide Pods are little costly I have saved money from not using as much detergent to keep my clothes clean. Tide Pods are also great when you have kids trying to do their own laundry.
I love Tide Pods. The only real complaint that I have is that they do not fully dissolve in hot or cold water. Also, I can't just "drop" them in the wash. While I do love how clean my clothes get after using the pods, I have had to make some adjustments to use them. I always dissolve a pod fully in a cup of hot water and then add it to the laundry water. Then I add the clothes. There are no problems after that. For those who complain that the pods are a clumpy mess in the package, my advice is don't reach into the container with wet hands. They dissolve in water so of course they are going to stick together if you introduce water into the package. Other than that I have no complaints. No staining, just clean great smelling clothes.
I started using Tide pods about 3 months ago and I will continue to use it from now on. I have always used Tide liquid detergent and decided to try the pods with amazing results. My laundry smelled wonderful and was clean with no residue. I have read the reviews about the plastic package not disolving but I have not had this problem...although I do not use a high efficiency washer (uses much less water)
I love the smell of Tide pods. Not only do they smell excellent but also clean my clothes well. The only thing that keeps me from giving it 5 stars is the high price. But I guess you get what you pay for.
Have used Tide Pods for over a year but recently stopped buying them. They generally clean alright although I have had two light colored items come out streaked with blue. At first I thought they were great on stains but decided the pods don't really remove stains effectively. My biggest complaint is that the laundry doesn't smell good; there is a distinctive sour chemical smell. They also stick together in the container and these cannot be separated and generally burst if you try to get them apart. Not worth the price. How much trouble is it really to pour some liquid detergent into the cap and then into the washer? Pods are a good idea that don't work very well.
I love these things. So easy, just throw one in.                           stains-              As far as stains go it will get them out just about as good as any other detergent out there so dont just get it for that.                           Loads-                           May need to use two pods depending on how big of a load you use. For a small to medium load i usually use just one and they come out smelling great. for bigger loads i use two.                           Price-                           The price isnt that bad considering if you do use one pod per load it ends up being cheaper then your usual liquid detergent. this is also a great price for them, i think walmart sells them for about 20 to 27 dollars depending on what one you get.                           I really like these, i think they work great. they get the clothes nice and clean and smells pretty good but not an over powering smell. Great buy!
These are so easy to use. I probably save money using these pods since I am too careless pouring in powder or liquid laundry detergent. The Spring Meadow scent is very nice. I usually try to get everything with no scent at all, but this smells good! The Tide Pods do a great job cleaning. I recommend them!
I started using the tide PODS approx. 4 months ago. We moved into a house that has well water and needed a product that would keep our clothes from turning yellow AND leave a fresh clean scent. A friend of mine suggested I try the Tide PODS. They keep my clothes fresh and clean.( I have to say that I do use oxi-clean with every load as well.) I have 3 boys that play sports and a very active 2 year old boy and so far no stains and they smell great (even when they do their own laundry)! I am overall impressed with the results and will continue to buy TIDE, as long as the budget allows :)
i love the tide pods there not even as heavy as the liquid bottles even when you buy the biggest package.i always buy the biggest package of pods which carry 77 of them and it lasts me a long time....not only are they not heavy to carry but they also clean my clothes very well and they leave my clothes smelling nice and fresh keep up the good work tide and keep these around cause its all i will buy!!!!!!
I am very impressed with Tide Pods! They make my clothes smell amazing. My husband is a truck driver and they are perfect for traveling. I only gave 4 stars because they take a while to dissolve in cold water, but I haven't had any problems with them so far. Either way, I will always buy Tide products. Tide Loads of Hope really helped my state during the aftermath of the April 2011 tornadoes. Thank you Tide!
I have a "thing" with laundry detergent. Every time I go shopping for it I have to smell about 20 different types before I settle on something new that I end up (usually) either disliking the smell or do not like the way it cleans. Generally speaking, I look for fairly strong/lasting scent that does not give me a headache (I love fragrance, but am very sensitive to many of them), something that doesn't irritate my skin, and obviously something that cleans my clothes well. This is THE BEST smelling laundry detergent I have ever used (Alpine Breeze scent - have not tried the others). It is described as floral and woody, but it really does not smell very flowery at all. Woody but not masculine. This is probably the first time ever I have bought the same detergent 3x in a row, and I do not plan to switch. I rent and my laundry room here has both top- and front-loading washers. I have not had issues with stains in either, however I do try to be careful since others seem to have had problems. For top-loading machines, I put the pod (1 or 2) in first and set the water on hot. I just do this long enough for the pod to start to dissolve and then change it to cold or warm if needed. For front-loading, put the pod in first, not on top of the clothes. I think it is probably wise to put things less precious right on top of the pod just in case of stains, but I have been using these for a long time now (used one medium-sized bag and now am about halfway through one of the large cases) and I have not noticed any stains at all. I do sometimes wash in cold but more often I use warm. One pod definitely works to get even pretty large loads clean, however, sometimes for items I really want more fragrance in I use two and I do find it still rinses well in my old, crummy apartment washers. It has not irritated my skin and the scent lasts better than most other detergents. PLEASE Tide, make a matching fabric softener or dryer sheets! (If these exist, someone please tell me!) I would buy them like my life depended on it! I exclusively use unscented fabric softener/dryer sheets now specifically because I don't want the scent to compete with my Tide pods.
they're awesome. I only bought the 14 pod bag about a month ago. I have 3 pods left! These things really do clean your clothes! I thought I was going to have to use 2 or 3 for one extra large load, but I only used one. And my clothes still came out clean and wonderful smelling! You gotta try them. I think you'll get your money's worth.
i love to buy bulk and love the smell I'm gonna buy more again soon just need to run out lol
I love Tide Pods! I pop one or two(for heavy soils or large loads) into my washer, start the water and then add my clothes. I've never had an issue with residue or stains. Everything comes out clean and smelling great, even my towels! I'm also saving money because when I used liquid detergent I tended to use too much.
My husband bought these pods and told me to try them, I did and they work and smell great! Sorry Gain, my new friend is Tide! Great product and my laundry cap doesn't end up getting lost because there is no need to use one now! Just toss in and close the lid! Easy!
I decided to buy these instead of the liquid. I have my 2 pre-teen daughters doing their own laundry now (yea) and they were not measuring the liquid correctly. Thus, using to much. We have used them for 6 months in a HE front loader machine. I add them to the drum just like the directions say to do. At first I really liked them. The smell was great. But I'm just not sure they are getting the clothes clean. We have some serious laundry. Gym clothes, soccer clothes, volleyball clothes. All sweaty and dirty. I have had to re-wash several loads even after using 2 pods. I can't quite put my finger on it. But I just feel the liquid Tide works better. I will use these up (I purchased a huge container) and go back to the liquid. I really wanted to like these too.
This is a better deal than the bottled Tide!!! in the same priced Tide you only get 60 loads and with this you get 72 loads, not to mention that you get the PERFECT amount of detergent every time! It is fantastic at taking out stains and smells!
I used the tide pods on my family's SHIRT load- WONDERFUL, smell great! Everything came out smelling wonderful after being dried on the line, and I was super scared that they plastic would be left in my washer( I don't own HE) well no plastic was left behind, totally dissolved!!!!! I will using this on a regular basis for this load of laundry. I do like the Purex Crystal's which I have been using but for the price of Tide Pods it's going to average out to be the same in the long run. I'm sure your wondering about the rest of our laundry- my house if full of ALL BOY'S and a husband- I'm the only girl- therefore LAUNDRY get's REALLY dirty around here. For Jean's/Jean Shorts I use my regular laundry detergent(purex or sun) and I use a cap full of PINE SOL(ALOT of dry cleaners do this and I bet most of you didn't know this) If jean's are real bad, 2 caps fulls. Get's the sweat out, get's the dirt out, try it! You will be impressed.(Recommend not using FABULOUS and just use regular pine sol) For towels-sun or purex laundry detergent and 1/2 cup Clorox Bleach 1 week, 1 cap full of clear amonia the next-switch up White's- sun or purex laundry detergent and I use a cap full of purex crystal's**I WILL BE REPLACING THE PUREX CRYSTAL'S WITH TIDE PODS NOW Shirt's-sun or purex laundry detergent and I was using a cap full of purex crystal's**I WILL BE REPLACING THE PUREX CRYSTAL'S WITH TIDE PODS NOW I don't dry anything except socks/underwear everything is line dried year round- saves the life of your clothes and a bit of exercise never hurt anyone- plus the savings always helps out. So as of now I don't know how the end product is if you dry a load- since I only did a shirt load thus far, but line drying our shirt's came our smelling/lasting longer than the Purex Crystal's
The difference here is that i dont waste the product. The liquid stuff comes with a cup that holds twice as much as you need and I was always adding too much and not getting the right number of loads from the package. I pay more for this, but I really do get 77 loads. I think its a good deal and oh! it cleans well too. I dont care much about the look or the smell or the package. Tried the cheap stuff but stains did not come out.
Thought these were just so great when they first came out. Thought that I had it made with laundry since all I had to do was throw in one of these little guys. I tried them all (scent wise) and the Ocean Mist seems to work the best. I can actually still smell it a little on the clothes after they have been washed and dried. At first I tried like it said and just used one and I had to question if the clothes were really clean because for a large load of laundry it just didn't seem possible. I have used up to 5 before of the Spring Meadow kind for a large load and still can not smell it on the clothes after they have been dried. The worst part is that after only being in the closet for a couple of days the clothes have that weird musty smell to them and I know that I did not hang them up wet. I absolutely hate these things now. I would rather go through 4 bottles of the cheaper brand of detergent than one of these, but if you ever get any of these.. the only kind that seems to work even a little is the Ocean Mist.
I'm not sure why other people are having trouble with the pods because I absolutely love them. They always completely dissolve, my clothes feel and smell great & it prevents my kids from "over pouring" laundry detergent. The only time I do not use the pods is when I wash towels and that's only because I don't use fabric softener on my towels because it makes them less absorbent. Anyone who tries Tide Pods and isn't happy with them, feel free to send the remainder to me! Sincerely
I am an avid Tide Pod regular and Boost, Downy Liquid and Unstoppables and Drier sheets user. I love the way it makes everything smell. Pretty much everything you can use for Laundry from Proctor and Gamble as long as they are Tide and Downy products. I ordered this instead of my usual Boost Pods. I use the Orange Boost along with my Tide Pods for my colors and the Vivid Boost White and Bright Pods for my Whites.... I thought i would try something different. The smell of these are horrendous and that's putting it lightly. They may work well, which is why i gave it an extra star instead of 1... But i just couldn't stand the smell. It was THAT BAD! If it wouldn't have had a seal to close the pouch i would've had to put it outside! I use Febreze all the time as well, so i don't understand why the smell was so bad?? This would be bad for those that have sensitivities to smells, as do i. It was instant headache for me. Oh and to amend my above comment, i gave some to my brother to try and he hated the smell as well. I did try one pod and rewashed the load of clothes to get the smell out.
This Tide has a super fresh smell and also has great cleaning power. I love that it is pre-measured and I do not have to worry about using more detergent than is needed. This is a great product and I will order it again.
Who doesn't love Tide? It gets the job done while smelling great. In my small apartment, it makes the whole place smell fresh - I just love it and LOVE when amazon puts it on sale, offers coupons, etc. Can usually get a great deal on this here.
I've used this several times now and even after several hard bike rides, my wearables smell great. No body odor, etc... it just smells like when I first washed it. Recommended buy !
I love tide products, they have always proven to be worth the cost, they clean great and smell great too.
We've always used tide due to my husbands skin allergies, but I am very happy with it! The clothes remain vibrant and colorful after several washes and smell great!
Product was either expired or a bad batch because it made clothes smell awful! Tried different mixes/water temps but nothing worked. Would not try this again!
I love it. No scent. good quality. most of all, the price is low. it is good for those who do not want any scent or smell on the those.
Bought it to wash my pets blankets and stuff in so the smell wouldn't bug them. Works great like normal tide and thankfully doesn't cost anymore than the normal kind either.
was a great price and a additon to what I bought. I like how it cleans and the clean smell.
Well - what should I say? I used Tide Febreze Sport during my honeymoon on a roadtrip through California. I loved the smell of the detergent and of course of the clothes after washing them. While there may be some detergents with similar cleaning power - there is no detergent with that beautiful scent. So what to do if the brand is not available in germany? Right. Buy it on amazon.com. For a small fortune inluding shipping cost and customs and so on. But its worth it!
This is just a mandatory product because I like the way it cleans my clothes and keep them smelling nice. This is my favorite product of detergents and I will continue buying when this runs out.
I have a terrible habit of spilling coffee on myself. But, as long as I keep this nearby I still have stain-free shirts. The smell can be a bit off-putting, and scrubbing the spot well enough can be a pain, but wouldn't you much rather have a few minutes of an off-putting smell than need to buy a new $50 shirt? The smell fades after a bit.
This is the best laundry detergent. Effective, great for sensitive skin. I use it on all laundry for our family of 6. I personally hate smelling like a bottle of laundry detergent, so it's great for that reason, too. Best price here, by far.
NO! Do not buy this if you like your clothes to smell clean. This is completely INFERIOR compared to the ORIGINAL SCENT. Tide Lavender is a ridiculous pretension that should be stopped right away before Tide forgets how to manufacture its original scent. SERIOUSLY, if you care at all about how your LAUNDRY SMELLS, NEVER VOTE FOR THIS AGAIN! LOL!
Seems to last longer than liquid, and it get the clothes just as clean as liquid Tide does, so it's a good choice. Only con for me is that the smell isn't that great. I remember when I was a kid, powder tide smelled amazing, and I always hoped my mother would use it. I don't know if they've changed the scent since then, or if I'm too used to the smell of liquid Tide (regular and "sport" scent), but this one doesn't smell great. Not necessarily a "stinky" smell, but more of a generic smell after washing, and definitely not the typical "Tide" smell from their liquid detergent. I'm picky with how I want my laundry to smell, though, so another consumer might appreciate this. If you use fabric softener in the wash, it solves this problem, so it's not really an issue. Overall, I'd recommend this with the suggestions above. It's nice to have this around, as a back up, when you run out of liquid.
This is my favorite detergent by far. I've tried other brands and other Tide formulas and this is the best. I just ditched my HE washer because it didn't clean well and went back to a standard Speed Queen, the best of the best, BTW. So I'm back to original Tide powder. It cleans best of any detergent I've tried.It comes in another fragrance, too, but I only buy original scent because clothes smell clean, not like perfume. I can no longer find Tide Original Scent Powder at Target or my local grocery stores, except for HE, so I'm happy Amazon carries it.
Tide has won so many consumer review contests that I can't count and yet I was stubborn and always bought the cheap BOGO detergent. My husband overrode my cheapness and ordered this Tide to wash his workout and work clothes. Now, I am hooked! Everything comes out clean the first time and the fresh smell lasts even in the closet. If we forget the clothes in the washer for a couple of hours, they still smell clean and fresh. In the past, we always had to rewash clothes that were left in the washer longer than an hour or so. Tide has been around forever and now I really see why.
Pods are a great idea, but they clearly need some more development to work out these issues.
I have been using Tide w/ Bleach Powder Original scent since it came out and have been very happy with it! My clothes smell fresh and clean and ARE clean! Recently, I tried to buy it at the retailers I usually purchase it at, and to my disappointment, neither carry it any longer. They now carry all the new fancy formulas which I am not interested in at all! I had to buy the Tide Powder Original Scent since that was the closest formula to what I wanted. This Tide Powder Original Scent formula is so disappointing!!! First of all, the scent is too strong and overwhelming. Why is it so strong? The Tide w/Bleach Powder is also Original Scent but it was light and pleasant not overwhelming and nauseating. Second, I noticed that the deodorant did not come out on three of my blouses!!! It looks like there are grease stains in the armpit area. This never ever happened when I used the Powder w/Bleach!!! I want my money back! I see that another reviewer is having the same problems that I am with trying to find the big box and the deodorant is still on the clothes. If I can't find the big box of Powder w/ Bleach, I will not buy Tide ever again!
This product has been great on most of my items and I use it in my every day laundry. However, I do not recommend that you use it on quilts, blankets or sheets. Right now I have a ruined set of brand new sheets, beautiful cream colored Egyptian cotton, with huge orange splotches that refuse to come out from being washed twice with this product.
Ocean Mist is the only fragrance I've tried so far and I love it.
Quality and convenience is always a bargain. Love these pods! I have to shelp to a laundramat and this is ultra easy!! The scents are all nice, "Mystic Forest," "Spring Meadow," and "Ocean Mist." Would be nice if there was a softener to match. Just be careful to not puncture, squeeze, or get them wet before they get into the washer. Terrific product!
Not recommended! At least 10 or 12 of the scent out of 77 was smashed. I wanted to return it but I didn't have any left so i just used it.. Not recommended!
I searched high and low trying to find this product. I used to get it at a nearby supermarket, but they stopped carrying this specific product. It makes my clothes smell really great and has great cleaning power!
Tonight I reached in to the Tide container to pull out a Pod for a load of laundry I was about to start and I found a gooey, sticky mess. Apparently, some of the Pods had melted and leaked. If that wasn't enough, the remaining Pods are all stuck together. There is no way I'm going to get them apart without breaking more. My laundry room is in the basement which is the coolest area in my house and it's only May. Can't imagine what I would find in August. Luckily, I won't be buying them again so I won't be finding out.
Tonight I reached in to the Tide container to pull out a Pod for a load of laundry I was about to start and I found a gooey, sticky mess. Apparently, some of the Pods had melted and leaked. If that wasn't enough, the remaining Pods are all stuck together. There is no way I'm going to get them apart without breaking more. My laundry room is in the basement which is the coolest area in my house and it's only May. Can't imagine what I would find in August. Luckily, I won't be buying them again so I won't be finding out.
Tonight I reached in to the Tide container to pull out a Pod for a load of laundry I was about to start and I found a gooey, sticky mess. Apparently, some of the Pods had melted and leaked. If that wasn't enough, the remaining Pods are all stuck together. There is no way I'm going to get them apart without breaking more. My laundry room is in the basement which is the coolest area in my house and it's only May. Can't imagine what I would find in August. Luckily, I won't be buying them again so I won't be finding out.
This is a great way to buy tide. My only problem is the spout part. There is very little reason to use this. The bottle is not very heavy and it's easy to just pour a bit in the washing machine. I find this the most inexpensive way to purchase tide.
My daughter uses Tide Liquid detergent, and on occasion the powder, I've recommended to her to try the Pods.
I have used Tide detergent all my life and have not found anything else to compare it to. Its the best.
Walmart has this same product right now for $17.97 each. That's $71.88 for four. That's a little over $16 in savings if I purchase 4. Free shipping with purchase of $35 or more. Here is the link. Can someone check it out to make sure my math is accurate? [...]
I was VERY hesitant to use a product like this. A few years ago I tried Purex 3 in 1 sheets with results that were nothing short of disastrous. That product stained all my clothes and I swore I'd never use anything remotely like it again. But then I saw Tide pods and read all the wonderful reviews. So...I gave it a shot and I'm glad I did. It's so nice to be able to tell exactly when you're going to run out vs. the liquid. A bag of pods doesn't weigh nearly as much as the liquid. No mess, no spills. Just throw one in, throw your clothes on top of it and you're done. My clothes came out smelling wonderful and there was nothing left of the pod either. I checked to make sure because I've read some people have had the plastic thing melt in the dryer. Nope, mine dissolved completely. I love this product and will stay with it.
First, I have no small toddlers in the house. My only comment: why is laundry detergent and other cleaners so accessible in houses with babies and toddlers? Duh! Don't blame the product, if you don't use common sense and watch your kids!  Put it up high or don't buy the product, but quit demanding good products be removed from the market!                                                                     Okay, now that I have gotten that off my chest, I have to rave about this product. I have a front loader with steam and never have a problem with "non-melts" or residue. Maybe that is because I have been in the habit of hitting the "extra water" button since I first got my machine, plus I am not real fond of washing in cold water. I use my steam button. I like the softness of my clothes. I love the way my clothes smell and my clothes do look brighter and cleaner (I switched from liquid All). I like the convenience. I like the way it removes stains. I would give it 10 stars if I could.                                                                     Amazon is a great seller. The price was comparable to full price at WalMart. Shipping is free. I don't have to lug the product home with my groceries. Perfect!!
I bought the Tide Pods because of the ease of use and hoped it would get my husbands nasty work clothes clean the first time being washed. He works outside in the AZ heat. After 1/2 of the package of pods was gone he asked me if I left the clothes in the washer too long. Not in AZ, things mildew really fast. He said his clothes stink after just a few minutes of sweating. Well its the Tide Pods that stink. Everything smells like mildew. NASTY. The clothes were cleaner but can't take the smell. Will not buy again and will not recommend them to friends. Off to wash all the clothes again with something else!
These are more expensive than the cheaper liquid detergent I was using, but I will not go back! These not only have detergent but also softener and stain remover, so you do get more than just detergent alone. The smell is soo good. What really hooked me was when I used them on my husbands work clothes. When I would wash his with the cheaper detergent we used ($2 a 75oz bottle on sale...) I would use triple the amount of recommended detergent to try and get the oil/grease smell out (he's an auto tech) and it wouldn't last that long. I washed a Large load with one pack and he came home from work that night and I could still smell the spring meadow scent. Love them!
FANTASTIC. GREEN, (I will not refer to the chemicals, as those are not green) but much much much reduced packaging which reduces waste in landfills. Also the low water content reduces freight expense as well as water table transference. I know big words, but, it is 2013, Climate change is real people and taking care of the earth is important. So yeah, the Tide pods VERY thoroughly clean my clothing. I am also quite sensitive to most scents, however this scent is not too much to set off my allergies, but it leaves my clothing clean and smelling fresh. Will definitely continue to purchase this product.PRIME shopper
I love Tide, so when the pods came out I had to try them. I loved them. I love the conviience of no measuring. They last me longer because I'm not pouring too much liquid. My clothes always smell, look and feel clean. I bought the large container. By the middle I noticed the pods started to stick together. Trying to separate them they broke and leaked. I was disappointed. I recently bought a small bag thinking maybe if they don't sit as long. Sad to say, I just took one out and they are starting to stick to each other. I will not buy them again. So sad. Such a great idea.
First, to all the people complaining about them sticking together, they need to be kept in a cool place. Otherwise they will melt and stick together as a lot of people seem to be complaining about.  My mother turned me onto these.  She bought and used a 72 pack and gave me half a dozen to try. Back to what I stated above, she keeps them in my nephew's bedroom, who like to keep it cold in there, and hasn't encountered a single pod that was stuck to another or melted, nor has she had any that didn't dissolve in the wash, so I'm not sure why other users are having the issue. Possibly over loading the washer?  Anyway, I used up the 6 my mother gave me (ocean mist scent) and I absolutely LOVE these little guys. We used to use liquid detergent in my house and it always went too fast as everyone seems to use more detergent than necessary. With the pods it's simple; drop in one pod per load and you're good! Clothes come out clean, soft and they smell great.  Highly recommended.
Just a good, whitening detergent that leaves clothes smelling fresh and clean. Will continue to purchase from Amazon because I can't find it in stores. My old washer requires this old detergent, it doesn't do with "he". My washer is going strong, much better quality than new "he" ones, so why change?
I've always used Tide and thought I would give this new scent a go since I have a 15 year old who's into all kinds of sports plus I LOVE Febreeze (normally) . The smell is awful, I washed one load of clothes and that was it - the smell makes me nauseous - I don't know how to describe it - rotten fruit in a cardboard box ???. I will not be buying this product again, I had some co-workers smell it and they seemed to think it was fine so it must be a personal preference or taste.
Great value and it's been working for me for years, never disappoints me :)
I have three children who are active in sports. I used this detergent hoping it would help eliminate odors and now my kids clothes smell like cat pee. I finally got sick of it and poured the detergent down the kitchen sink drain. My husband came down and asked "what is that horrible smell?" Don't buy this product. I went back to my tried and true (and very green) way of getting rid of smells ---adding vinegar to the wash. No more smell and I'm saving lots of money.
I even had a neighbor come into my garage and tell me how great my garage smelled; just because I happened to be doing laundry. Tide is great, and this smell is the best one ever. Highly recommended. I just wish I was able to get the larger sizes; they recently changed their subscription program and I can only buy the smaller bottles. Pity!
Excellent product! This product cleans great and I absolutely love the smell and feel of my clothing. we will most definitely buy again.
I have used Tide for years, but now my kids are teeneagers and their athletic wear stinks! I was getting frustrated that the laundry never smelled fresh anymore, especially since I bought a front loading machine. A friend recommended the Tide Sport with Febreeze. I tried it and LOVED it. The sweaty teenage boy clothes smell great and my machine smells better also. I have had a hard time finding the specific Tide in stores so I order online.
This is a great product, gets clothes clean and smelling great. I have tried other products which were far inferior to the quality of tide. I always choose to spend a little extra for quality. Pay me now, or pay me later - if you get the cheap stuff, your clothes will fade, so the money you save on detergent will end up being spent on new clothes more frequently. My philosophy: Don't pinch pennies when it comes to detergent.
They smell good. They are worth what you paid. High efficient to wash your clothes, I like it and I would recommend
Even though this is lavender, it smells pretty much the same as regular Tide - and I like that smell. This was the best value for the quantity on Amazon which is why I ended up with this scent. Will buy again.
I normally don't buy Tide because it is one of the pricier brands, but lately my local Meijer store has been carrying it in their clearance department so I gotit for under half price. Now that I've tried it, though, I'm hooked! I'm in big trouble when this stuff isn't on clearance anymore!lol This detergent is so gentle on both my clothes...
This is a great product and it is great that I can have this delivered right to my front door
Just like everyone else, I have stained clothes and sticky goop in the door gasket of my front loading washer. A friend stayed for a weekend recently and I washed his white oxford shirt with Tide Pods and it was stained purple and the stains could not be removed even when bleached. I was embarrassed. Since then I have switched to All Free & Clear Pods. There is no dye and they are half the price of Tide Pods. I will never use Tide Pods again.
I love not having to measure. Just drop it in the washer your all done
Love the pods! Quick, convenient and work great.
Just like everyone else, I have stained clothes and sticky goop in the door gasket of my front loading washer. A friend stayed for a weekend recently and I washed his white oxford shirt with Tide Pods and it was stained purple and the stains could not be removed even when bleached. I was embarrassed. Since then I have switched to All Free & Clear Pods. There is no dye and they are half the price of Tide Pods. I will never use Tide Pods again.
Just like everyone else, I have stained clothes and sticky goop in the door gasket of my front loading washer. A friend stayed for a weekend recently and I washed his white oxford shirt with Tide Pods and it was stained purple and the stains could not be removed even when bleached. I was embarrassed. Since then I have switched to All Free & Clear Pods. There is no dye and they are half the price of Tide Pods. I will never use Tide Pods again.
my fiance and me have started using these after i had moved in with him last november, we love the scents, since we are both in college and work this makes laundry one less thing to stress\worry about by bottles and boxes
I have been using Tide since I learn to do laundry back in the 5th and 6th grade and its still reliable as it was when I first used it back in 1973 and 74. I love the addition of the different scents and softners.
Love Tide! Love it! Febreze one is great! No complaints works well
I love the online groceries shopping I wish I can get everything I need
I started using Tide Total care several years ago after reading about it in Good Housekeeping magazine. I was amazed that it worked as advertised,,cleaning as the regular detergent, but without fading and no more pilling of sweaters. Of course, it became unavailable at local stores. Found online in April Fresh. Have used first bottle, seems to take care of clothes, but don't seem as clean.
Would buy again.
Would buy again.
I was eating blackberries at lunch and somehow ended up with a stain on the back of the light colored dockers I was wearing. When I got home a 5hr later I immediately did a load of wash to get the blackberry stain out. The stain went from a dark stain to a bit lighter blue stain. It did not remove the stain totally. I then treated it with another brand product and the stain was gone after the wash. I did not dry the dockers after the first wash. I did after the second wash. I have tried this product with other stains and the result is the same. It doesnt NOT remove the stain. I will not buy this product again!
I used Tide Stain Release In-Wash Booster Action Pack on some tough stains. I was able to get blood and ketchup out of light clothing in the first wash. I also used it on grease stains. There is still a faint stain but if you did not know it was there you would not notice. The smell is also wonderful. I will use this product again. As with all major stain release products I am not certain about using it every time I wash.
In Feb of this year I brought this same product for 11.87 now it was tripled in price. I love this amazing product, the fresh scent and power house dirt busters. I WILL NOT pay double for this product. I will wait for sales at the stores close to home.
Cleans clothes very well, I don't have to use bleach with my husbands white shirts anymore
This is a pretty good bundle price ($29) for two bags of pods, two boxes of dryer sheets and a cannister of unstoppables. Usually that amount of pods by themselves would be a couple dollars more. The Added dryer sheets and unstoppables are a nice bonus of about $12 worth of stuff and who doesn't like QUALITY FREE STUFF with all the laundry we have to do?! Win-Win!
...buy Tide, because it is far more costly than it's worth. That's until I found this 77 count pod offer in the Subscribe and Save and nearly flipped when I saw the price for subscribing. Very competitive for this name-brand product. As for Tide itself, only time will tell whether it truly is more remarkable at cleaning my clothes than less-expensive brands.
This package contains everything you need for your laundry room. Your clothes will be super clean, smell good and be ready to fold and put away. These products are wonderful!
I'm not certain if this has done much for softening my wash; however, I absolutely love this detergent and will continue to purchase it if I can locate it at my local market. I don't typically like scents or perfumes and initially thought this was going to be too strong for my preference; but I find it very pleasant to smell, more so than any other detergent I've ever used. Additionally, the scent really LASTS! My clean clothes still smell clean; long after I've taken them out of the wash :)
This Tide with Febreeze kicks it up several notches. Same cleaner clothes but the Febreeze added makes it even better! The price is lower\ at my supermarket. Even smelly sneakers come out clean and smell good.I have found my best detergent choice!
Have developed skin sensitivities and had to switch laundry detergents. Fortunately, my long time favorite Tide had an alternative for me. Very pleasantly surprised at the results from Tide 2X Ultra Free. Clothes are smooth and brightly clean.
I got this after finding out I was allergic to other brands with dyes and scents. it cleans well and stop the skin irritation. highly recommend!!!
I have used Tide Pods in another scent and purchased in the large container. The pods in this smaller pkg of Mystic Forest scent did not dissolve as well. In cold or warm water the pod took less than a minute to dissolve with agitation. Hot water did not take as long to dissolve the pod. Always dissolve pod in the washer before adding laundry items.
Ordered the Vivid but got regular tide with bleach not sure why but little disappointed on that end.
I HAVE NOT RECEIVED THIS TIDE DETERGENT YET....STILL WAITING ON IT TO ARRIVE.HAVE YOU ALL SHIPPED IT YET?
WISH IS CHEAPER AND GETS STAINS OUT BETTER THAN TIDE. HAVE BEEN A TIDE USER MOST OF MY LIFE. SWITCHING TO WISK.
I love this stuff, but my local super market doesn't carry them anymore. I have three large dogs and have blankets and sheets over their beds, on the carpets and on my furniture. My dogs spend a lot of time patrolling our yard, so dirt and mess get tracked in all the time. I throw one of these in the washer with my blankets and sheets (or work clothes), and they seem to come out much cleaner. I prefer the unscented for most things because my daughter has very sensitive skin, but the regular scent is fresh and clean without being overwhelming. I have these delivered via Amazon's Subscribe and Save, and even though they're not a big bargain, it is super convenient, and I don't have to pay for shipping or gas!
Our family decided to start using Amazon's Subscribe and Save. Since we couldn't get our usual Clorox 2 stain remover through the program, we decided to give this a try. We tend to wash the majority of our clothes on a completely cold cycle or a warm wash with a cold rinse. These pods just weren't effective at all. In my opinion these pods did nothing to release stains from our clothing. In addition my clothes had a filmy feel to them, and that was with our usual white vinegar in the rinse cycle. This meant that I sent most of our clothes through an additional rinse cycle to try and remove the film. We've since dropped the pods from our Subscribe and Save subscriptions and have gone back to using Clorox 2. Stains gone and no more filmy clothes!
They are fabulous because everything is measured in the capsule, they are easy to transport to the laundry room in my building. I'm saying bye bye to the clunky heavy bottles of this that and the other thing :) I am happy how clean my clothes come out too! They work in all temps of water as well!!! What a win :)
love love love this product clothes look like new!!!!!!!!!! I will be buying more of this for my laundry. Great product
Tide is the only detergent I use. I have tried many others and am always disappointed. However, I am disappointed in Tide Pods. My husband noticed he was getting blue stains on his white T-shirts and we weren't sure why, until we noticed the stains were the same color as the color in the Pods. We always make sure the pods are in the bottom of the washer so they are able to dissolve. This was very disappointing to us...we loved the concept, but we won't be buying the pods any more, especially at that price.
Tide is the only detergent I use. I have tried many others and am always disappointed. However, I am disappointed in Tide Pods. My husband noticed he was getting blue stains on his white T-shirts and we weren't sure why, until we noticed the stains were the same color as the color in the Pods. We always make sure the pods are in the bottom of the washer so they are able to dissolve. This was very disappointing to us...we loved the concept, but we won't be buying the pods any more, especially at that price.
Tide is the only detergent I use. I have tried many others and am always disappointed. However, I am disappointed in Tide Pods. My husband noticed he was getting blue stains on his white T-shirts and we weren't sure why, until we noticed the stains were the same color as the color in the Pods. We always make sure the pods are in the bottom of the washer so they are able to dissolve. This was very disappointing to us...we loved the concept, but we won't be buying the pods any more, especially at that price.
I was just at the supermarket, buying fresh raspberries when the package leaked all over my white sweatshirt. After checking out, I decided to go back for a stain removed and picked up the Tide to Go Pen. It took about 5 minutes to remove the raspberry stain completely! I am so happy I purchased this product.
Convenient! One drop in the wash, has a great scent and removes the tough stains to keep the quality of clothes looking great! Thank you!
Does a excellent job in laundry and the pods are very easy to use with no measuring.
I love tide Pods because they make it so much easier and faster to do laundry. I was always one of those people who thought I should put a little more of the liquid in than what was recommended. With Tide Pods I'm actually using less detergent and I'm saving money because of that. Amazon offers a great price even compared to Walmart
I get this in better price than any other local dealers. I don't have to carry to home, just a mail man does for me. But, amazon now on collecting tax for uncle sam. I am in costco/sam market after on.
As stated above, this product is amazing! I wear white socks and white skirts always and am amazed at how BRIGHT they are. No more dull brights and it's safe on colours as well. THE PRICE offered here is nuts. Call Tide and find out where you can find it locally. (I thought I'd check amazon for convenience.) The local stores carry it for $17 dollars the same size and make. (96 oz and 53 loads)
Does a great job with whites, no matter how filthy, and fast! Great product!
It was nice receiving the laundry detergent, fabric softener, fabric refresher all together.
I love how clean this stuff leaves your clothes. I definitely will be buying more!!! So happy and the price was well worth it!
The two-day free shipping on this made my daily life in college so much easier. I didn't have to worry about whom I had to ask for a ride to the store when I realized I was close to running out of detergent. Cue Amazon Prime to the rescue. For $11 or so I was stocked with two energy efficient Tide bottles. Makes you wonder why people even allow themselves to be ripped off by Target or Walmart or any of the corporate giants that play the middle men in our daily consumption of products when you can literally just hop onto Amazon, wait a day or so and BAM. Money saved.
I have a friend who is allergic to everything so when I found this bargain I had to get it what a steal just one of these will cost you about 11.00 so to get two for 16.00 is a bargain and to have them automatically come ever few months for the same price even better. I can switch addresses so I have laundry soap at my NYC and SF places
But not quite as well as I remember it working; it has been quite a while since I have been able to find Tide plus bleach or bleach alternative for HE machines, my memory may be faulty, but at least my clothes are looking a bit brighter, and for a good price!
Great subscription; not only did I get two for the price of one, there was a added reduction in cost cause I have a ongoing subscription
Great product but it is overpriced through Amazon! Tide HE with Acti-Lift Liquid Laundry Detergent, Original - 170 oz. - 110 loads is only $19.98 at Sams club!
Removed all stubborn stains that were not being removed by the regular tide. It made white clothes really white. For the promotional price that amazon provided this is a good buy.
Item is overpriced, you pay double the regular price for a 50oz. I was under the impression I was purchasing a package of 2 or a larger size. No deal here.
Great product for those with allergies.
I seen these at my local Publix and decided to try since they were only T E N bucks for the huge jug (138 oz). They sold out quick at my store and I haven't been able to find them anywhere. I use to buy our detergent on Amazon, it was a little cheaper and free shipping but the prices are more than in the store these days. :(
Product is great but way over paid. Individual packets are sold for 1$ each at Walmart. They were perfect size for travel tho!
always buy the same brand
I was interested in how they would get it to me. First they chose FedEx which is not brutal like Mr. Green's trucks. It had its lid taped in place inside a zip lock bag. Packed in a small box with an small air bag. The box had a big arrow this side up. The box was delivered upside down of course. But not a drop leaked. So I would say its safe most of the time to order this type stuff.
it is the best on the market today
My recommendation should really read yes AND no! I have used the Tide Pods now for quite a while, as they are very convenient and seem to do a great job when using warm water. Unfortunately, when using them in cold water loads (I have a two year old Whirlpool front loader), I am getting a sticky blue mess/residue on many of my items. It has happened with towels, sheets and basic clothing and it's inconvenient, to say the least. It also "gunks up" my washer well by the door with the same sticky substance. I find it a pain to have to have liquid detergent on hand for some loads and these Pods for others, so I may stop buying them altogether. Too bad because they do clean the clothing and linens well...when they work and they're so easy. Please fix this, Proctor & Gamble!
My recommendation should really read yes AND no! I have used the Tide Pods now for quite a while, as they are very convenient and seem to do a great job when using warm water. Unfortunately, when using them in cold water loads (I have a two year old Whirlpool front loader), I am getting a sticky blue mess/residue on many of my items. It has happened with towels, sheets and basic clothing and it's inconvenient, to say the least. It also "gunks up" my washer well by the door with the same sticky substance. I find it a pain to have to have liquid detergent on hand for some loads and these Pods for others, so I may stop buying them altogether. Too bad because they do clean the clothing and linens well...when they work and they're so easy. Please fix this, Proctor & Gamble!
My recommendation should really read yes AND no! I have used the Tide Pods now for quite a while, as they are very convenient and seem to do a great job when using warm water. Unfortunately, when using them in cold water loads (I have a two year old Whirlpool front loader), I am getting a sticky blue mess/residue on many of my items. It has happened with towels, sheets and basic clothing and it's inconvenient, to say the least. It also "gunks up" my washer well by the door with the same sticky substance. I find it a pain to have to have liquid detergent on hand for some loads and these Pods for others, so I may stop buying them altogether. Too bad because they do clean the clothing and linens well...when they work and they're so easy. Please fix this, Proctor & Gamble!
Another commentor mentioned that his shirts developed pin holes that got bigger. I have the same problem, but it is all things that I wash and isn't limited to pinholes: all my collars, seams rotted. I am throwing away T-shirts by the handful. I know, quit using it... the problem was that by the time you notice that your washing is disintegrating before your eyes it is too late. Any thing that has a weakened area is going to fall apart (including any part that is sewn through). This stuff is way too strong. After I discovered this I thought that it must be great for heavy soils. Nope, just kept rotting the fabric. Did find it lifted the caked on soap that was stuck in the bottom of my machine (behind the basket). You know the "rock" that harbors mildew? It is gone, in chunks. I can not recommend this to anyone other than an enemy... oh yes and it stinks. I even tried using a 1/4 measure, same results. Bad, bad, bad...
I have used the Tide to Go pen in the past with success, and have appreciated having it in my suitcase. However, I have just purchased a white, cotton shirt which now has two yellow stains on the front where I used the Tide to Go pen. I was trying to remove two small red spots that splashed on the shirt from preparing raspberries. The fruit stains disappeared, but the yellow stains that resulted are obvious in sunlight. I've washed the shirt, and the yellow remains. I've called Tide, and the customer service agent recommended more Tide detergent directly on the stains over night, followed by rewashing. I'm trying this now. Hopeful, but very disappointed in the meantime.
Best product for the money. I've tried every laundry detergent out there and I always seem to go back to Tide. So much so that now I have Amazon auto ship it to me every three months. The auto ship feature on Amazon is great for those products that you always seem to forget at the grocery store.
Im not sure the scent can be trusted in a business professional setting! Outside use is fine!
This is 3x more expensive than a regular store!!!! Why would anyone buy this online for 3 times more? Why?
Does a good job of getting out new stains. It appears nothing gets out old grease stains. Does a better job than liquid.
I love these Been using pods for 4 years. 90 pods, 30 bucks is better than spending 5 here or there for one pack. They are strong and sturdy and just great.
I received a tide pod sample in the mail. I was excited to try it as I love the little cascade pouches. I followed the directions on the package, putting the pod in the washing machine drum, then the clothes. After the load was completed, a blue sticky, gooey substance was left trapped under the door seal. A major disappointment. I use a front loading washing machine as described on the package. I will not be purchasing tide pods!
I bought the Spring Meadow 72 pack of Tide Pods, and I love them! No mess, no measuring, and goes great with Downy. I use the Tide Pods, and the Downy Double Upgrade, and it is amazing. I have already reccomended Tide Pods to family, and friends. I love them, and am going to continue using them. Great product!
I received my pods last week in the mail. Love the ease of using them. Just throw one in the washer along with your clothes and that's it. So much neater than pouring the liquid and the bottle getting all gooey! I would definitely buy these again.