The smell is awful. If it's too much perfume for me, then it's way too much for the cats. Too bad I bought so much (on sale) and I can't afford to give it away. I just have to be hyper-vigilant about cleaning; tough with 9 litter boxes. I hope the old Tidy Cats is still available to buy after this gunk is gone.
As many other reviewers here I've also been a big fan of the Tidy cats Instant Action and when I saw this new product with Glade I thought it would surely be even better. NO, JUST NO! First of all the smell is terrible! As soon as I opened it I realized I would not be purchasing this product ever again. But still, if my cat didn't mind the smell so much and it worked just as well as the Instant Action, I was just going to finish up the bucket. But now, after trying it out, I realized this litter does NOT clump as Instant Action does. It is not easy to scoop, it smells terrible and it's just an overall terrible product, I wouldn't recommend anyone to use it and now I'm even thinking about just throwing it out and getting new litter.
Thank you Walmart for including this in ship to home. It has a nice, light and clean fragrance. Not overpowering at all. It comes in a large plastic bag, inside a cardboard box with handles. The price can't be beat, but the quality seems better than Tidy Cats! Happy Scooping. ^_^
This litter is disgusting. Definitely do not use this if your litter box is in a small space like a bathroom - my bathroom now has a thick, chemical stink to it that can only be described as a noxious plastic odor. The Glade additive is not a bad idea in theory, but in reality it's absolutely terrible. I will never buy this again, even in a pinch. Try again, Tidy Cat.
This is normally my go-to litter. The smell is usually fantastic and masks the cat odor efficiently. However! I just bought some a week ago from Target and it doesn't smell as it normally does! The smell is so bad it makes me gag when I scoop the litter. It even smells horrible when it's fresh and there's no cat droppings in it. Is it possible for there to be a bad batch, or for the smell to sour? I was actually woken out of a deep sleep by the smell of this (I have a tiny apartment and the cat box is in my room) last night, and felt like puking because it was so bad. I want to continue buying this, but I will be sniffing every jug from now on, and if I can't find one that smells like it used to, I will have to move on!
I've tried the new Glade Tidy Cats litter & I absolutely hate it! It doesn't clump nearly as well as the Multi-Cat litter (with the blue lid) and as a result, the litter gets dirtier much more quickly. I've found that I have to completely change the box about twice as often as before. And I don't find the smell to be any better. If anything, it's worse because the litter is dirtier. I have an unused 35 pound container that's just sitting in my garage, which I will only use in the event of an emergency. I really, really hope that this new product isn't intended to replace the old one, because if so, I'll be shopping for another brand of litter altogether!
I don't know what you guys did to your litters...all of them...they just don't do it for me anymore.  Up until recently, I loved your products.  Now,  after just one day...the smell, ugh.  Go back to the way it was or I'm simply going to have to try other brands.  I've used the 24/7, Instant Action, the new one with glade...etc.  All of them.  
I too am disappointed in the litter..I have 6 cats and when I used to use this you couldn't smell anything and cleaning the boxes was a breeze,but now it just isn't doing the job..The 20lb bag I get at Freds for $5 clumps better than this..Ever hear of the old saying if it ain't broke don't fix it
I saw this new line of Tidy Cats litter and I love glade scents so I thought, "why not give it a shot." I've been using the Instant Action one for a while and it does a good job. At first pour, the aroma is quite nice. But as soon as one of my cats uses the box, the smell of the glade just mixes with the smell of the feces and it is horrendous! I went from scooping my cat boxes twice a day to about five times a day because of this. It does nothing to mask the odor, in fact I believe it enhances it. I would not buy this type of litter again.
I have used this product before and decided to use Arm & Hammer then went back to Tidy Cats because of the price. This litter has a problem clumping. When I scoop the #1 from the litter box it falls apart- not all of it- but most of it and it leaves bits and pieces of #1 in the cat box. This ends up leaving the cat box smelling only after a 2 days. I love how large the pellets are with this litter but it doesn't due justice. For some reason it doesn't hold well and it doesn't cover the scent of #2 very well. When I go to scoop the #2 I noticed that the litter doesn't attach itself to the problem at all- leading me to believe that it doesn't clump as well as it should. I decided to try it and I won't use it again. I will go back to paying a little more for better results.
I've used this for years but obviously the formula has changed. I've now tried two other brands that both the cats and I love. I'll never go back to this litter.  You should have left it alone. It used to work great. Now it doesn't clump or scoop and I clean the boxes daily.   I'd give this zero stars if I could!
I have tried this litter for a couple months now. I do not think it clumps very well, in fact when i go to scoop the clumps fall apart. This litter does not keep the odor even to a minimum after the first week. I have two cats and two litter boxes and i will not be buying this again.
I was excited to try this lightweight litter but immediately regretted the purchase.  My two girls had no problem with the switch. It clumps great,  has good odor control and really is lightweight,  but the dust storm from scooping is horrible.  I noticed my two year old cat sneezing a lot after we started using this litter. I can't imagine that being good for my cats' respiratory system.  <br/><br/>I just purchased the Tidy Cats Breathe Easy.  The girls used their boxes as soon as I filled them and virtually no dust.  Hopefully the clumping and odor control is just as good.
Tried this thinking it would smell great, but am disappointed with it. Doesn't clump well at all, and one of my cats started peeing outside the box:( Will go back to the original.
I love Tidy Cats litter and thought I'd try the Glade version. HORRIBLE. The litter box always smells dirty and just leaves a stale smell even after I've cleaned it. The regular (without the Glade) is MUCH better.
I tried this litter and I DO NOT like the way it smells. I thought it would be great, so I bought two large containers.
We bought this product once and it was great! When back and purchased another bucket, but new one had an overwhelming rancid scent. When used in the kitty box the entire house smelled like it.  Horrible! Even deep cleaning carpets, cat box, and walls didn't diffuse the aroma. 
Put Tidy Cat litter into litter box just this Saturday - will not use again.   The glade smell is overpowering and sickly.   Clumps well but will not use unless the Glade smell is reduced or changed.
I bought a small jug of this because I initially liked the smell. After using it, I don't care for it at all. It does what it is supposed to, but once the glade smell mixes with cat urine it is just plain awful. Tidy cat is the only litter I buy and am very happy with it. I will continue to use it but with out the extra Glade in it.
I never (really, never) leave reviews for things, but this new "scent control" was so bad that I had to share this. First, I really appreciate Tidy Cats brand clumping cat litter. By far, the Tidy Cats brand provides *the best* overall clumping cat litter on the market. BUT, this new brand - Tidy Cats Glade Tough Odor Solutions - is the worst smelling litter I've ever used. Out of the box it smells funny, and after use it smells worse. Rancid is what comes to mind. I bought this particular "version" because it was new and we were about to go out of town for a week. We came home to a unpleasant smell thinking it was the fact that the two-litter boxes (one cat) was the cause. I cleaned the boxes out (there was still plenty of fresh litter available), but the next day the house smelled funny again. It was definitely the litter. The 24/7 performance version is the best of what they have to offer, and I will recommend this to anyone. This new "Glade" collaboration is something to avoid.
This product does not clump like it used too. I have multiple cats and have used it for years. Now you can smell the litter box as soon as you walk in the door! Very aggravating when you have a great product then for some reason you change it and it is not as good as before. Guess, I'll have to find another brand to buy.
yes was very unhappy with this new litter.  We use another type of tidy cats, but this new lightweight smelled after one day and it sticks to my cats like Styrofoam. on top of all that is was $4.00 higher than the normal litter I purchase.
There is only one tidy cats product that really works (the immediate odor clumping) and special kitty kicks it's butt! In price and quality it is the best litter I have ever used.
I did not realize how dusty this product is.  I am wondering if another TIDY cat litter is less dusty.  I had to move a litter box to a bedroom by a window and when I was carefully putting the litter in the box - dust was flying.  Has this product changed??  Is there another product that would have less dust.  I don't believe the 99.6% dust free anymore.
Does very well on clumping. Okay on odor control. Tracking is awful. And I don't understand how it can say 99.6% dust free. It is not at all dust free!! Thought at first maybe it was just the first couple I bought. But no, every single one so far has been highly dusty. And we are on about our 6th jug or maybe more.
We have 5 cats and 5 boxes and this stuff makes mud in every box. I clean them every morning and see no clumping at all! It does control odors, but is too hard to scrape out of the bottom of the pan. Threw out the last $2 off coupons because it was not worth it.
I have a lot of cats so we of course go through a lot of cat litter.  I was not all that impressed with the multiple cat litter maybe for two cats but anymore it can't keep up.  It clumps but doesn't seem to sift or scoop well, always having to scrap dried litter off the filter. Yuck! Would recommend if only a few cats.  I have bought and used five of these tubs and they all worked the same. Maybe a bad batch or maybe there is just something out there that is better for a large number of cats. Thanks 
I'm sorry, but, I tried Tidy Cats litter and hated it. Unless I remove the 'clumps' DIRECTLY after each use, it completely funks up whatever space I have the litter box in. This is really a problem because I'm at work 8 hrs a day, by the time I come home, the whole house reeks. I used it for maybe a week, just couldn't take the constant scooping/ funk.
I can't afford the extra price so I guess I'm stuck lugging the regular Tidy Cats litter. It's not as if I don't have to use as much or it lasts twice as long so the price was a deal-breaker for me and the couple shopping next to me, as well. :(
Very very disappointed with this product... I've used tidy cats for years with 3 different cats and had great success, but this past year the urine doesn't clump, makes a huge mess in the liter box when scooping, the Oder is not controlled, and have to change out the liter every 1-2  weeks. 
I've been using Tidy Cats for years so I decided to try the new one with Glade--wow the fragrance was very strong!! I was afraid my cats wouldn't use it. Luckily they didn't seem to mind but I really prefer the original Tidy Cats for Multiple Cats which seems to control odor without an overpowering fragrance. Will not be buying this one again.
I recently bought a 40 lb. bag of Tidy Cats non-clumping litter and while the picture on the bag indicates it to be a coarse litter similar to what I have been using from another manufacturer on opening the bag I found it to be a very fine grained litter which I do not like. I think the picture should match the product inside though if that had been the case I would not have purchased this litter.
I've been using this litter for years and it was great. Now, since the release of a new and «improved» formula, it has been awful. The clumps fall apart messing the whole litter and then have to put more litter and it ends much faster. It doesn't last long, have to spend more money. Sorry, I'm going to switch.
Tidy cats is the only brand we use... But unfortunately we won't try this new light weight litter as its to expensive!!
I have been using Tidy Cat for years...just bought the litter with Glade and the smell is absolutely disgusting..my whole house now stinks with the awful smell of Glade. What every possessed you to add this scent or any scent for that matter. If you scoop every day, there is no odor so adding Glade was absolutely unnecessary. I am now looking for another brand.
It no longer clumps urine, which is now dispersed throughout and smells worse than ever. They must have changed the formula. I wish I hadn't bought extra, because now I need to find a new product.
I have tried all of these types and they do not do what I need, get rid of the smell. I use Arm and Hammer which does great.
I bought the litter with the Glade in it,and it smells good when you first fill the cat box ,but it does not help with odor control after the cat uses it 
We are a tidy cat house hold we use the multiple cat red cap litter. We tried the  Glade litter and we had  trouble with clumping.  we eventually had to dump out all the boxes and replace with our regular tidy  cat because the smell was horrible. Maybe its not supposed to be used for multiple  cats or we got a bad batch
i bought this once and it was worthless, told my husband we were never buying it again. he forgot and bought it again -.- all i can smell when i walk into my house is cat urine and feces. i will stick with the regular blue tidy cats
The "NEW" Tidy Cats that I purchased has the "blue section/bubble" at the lower left side of the container that states Tough Odor SOLUTIONS. Nothing indicates that there will be a scent. My four cats HATE scented cat litter. My husband asked what the stench was. I had no idea what he was talking about until I entered the hallway where the x-tra large cat pan is placed. It smelled like a chemical. My daughter noticed that two cats were prowling the house and one of them started to urinate in the corner. After retrieving the Tidy Cat container from the recycling bin, I read in very small print on the side "Glade Clear Springs scent". After signing on this site, I noticed that the new containers reflect the fact that it is scented. I would not recommend this to anyone, due to the odor/chemical smell. My husband described it as "sour vinegar".
Is it just me or this litter changed dramatically?Used to be my fav and past few months ,a year .. is horrible.Will stick to the bottom of litter box , clumps start fall apart when try scoop it .. is just bad smelling in the first day of washing litter box and changing litter ... I would not recommend this to anybody.
This litter is so bad, I came to this site only to warn others against it. Smells awful like nuclear play doh....and doesn't clump on urine. In less than 2 weeks, I've had to completely change all the litter in the box 3 times because scooping doesn't work. Worst litter I've ever used. 
I tried it with my girls and did not like it at all.  Extremely dusty,  hated the smell even before the cats used it and it didn't control odors well.  The only good thing was the clumping and light weight.  We've switched to the Tidy Cats Pure Nature and love it.  Smells great,  clumps well, lightweight and controls odors better than any of the clay litters we've tried.
We love the original Tidy Cats litter -- BUT we hated the lightweight!!  DUST everywhere, and it smells like Fabreze or something -- awful if you have any kind of sensitivity or allergies and I can't imagine the cats liking it!!  We dumped out the whole thing and started over with the original weight Tidy Cat.  Waste of $12.99!!
My local Walmart is carrying the new Tidy Cats LightWeight for the same price as the regular red top 24/7 formula ($7.99 for a 20 lb. jug).  It looks and smells like the reg litter and it's definitely easier to handle, but I noticed one draw-back the very first time my cat tried the new litter.  It's so light, that it sticks to his fur.  It brushed right off, but he tracked it all down the stairs before I noticed it was clinging to his fur.  A short-hair cat probably wouldn't have that problem, but it sure made a mess with my long-haired cat.  :(
Easy to use pails GONE from Kmart.  I am very disgusted and frustrated with the annoyance these new bags cause me.  I have to clean and wash my 4 litter boxes for my 7-cats to maintain their well-being.  It's bad enough inhaling this litter refilling my cat boxes weekly.   What's with the EXTRA dust this particular litter possesses now?
I've been using this product for years with no problems.  The litter clumped and was easy to clean.  The last month or so has been dreadful with hard to scrape mud on bottom and the sides of the box.  No solid clumping anymore.  I'm looking at alternatives until they fix the formula.
I bought this because I thought it would work as far as odor better than the other tidy cat litters but not so. I have not had good luck with any of the tidy cat litters lately. I don't know if they changed the formula but it definitely does not clump as good as it used to. I started using fresh step and it works much better.
I had to buy tidy cat multiple non clumping litter because store was out of fresh step. terrible. I have 2 cats and when they urinate the litter turns to mud!
Have been using the new Glade litter but the store was out so i figured this would be just as good. Boy was i wrong! Clumps fall apart and leave debris all thru the litter. Awful. Never again. Controlled odor fine so i guess that was something.
I have used tidy cat litter for about 15 years. I have 8 cats and when this new tidy cat with glade came out I bought eight 35 pound containers. I was very disappointed and after it was gone I went back to the regular tidy cat litter. I would not recommend this product. 
I have been using the 24/7 litter for many years and have noticed a BIG change in it recently. It does not clump as firmly and it breaks up way to easily. Looks like I will have to switch brands. Sorry Purina,not a change for the better.
...ALSO, I get the Tidy Cat scoopable (not the economy because it doesn't fall apart when trying to scoop. This Glade scoopable falls apart when scooping, especially if you have a cat that likes to go in the edges/corners. Perhaps I just got a defective batch, though, so here's the info in case Quality Control reads this since there was no contact info (SKU 7023015348, Bottom of bucket: 7/21/13 5:05 Midwest, Side of Bucket: 3207116901 0404L01).
New lightweight formula = epic fail, It's too expensive Tidy Cats & from the great consensus on this forum/posts it tracks greatly & mats don't solve the problem.<br/>#backtothedrawingboard
The lightweight I'm sure is great...  but I stopped using Tidy Cats a LONG time ago when I realized just how much it stinks!  I use Cat's Pride Cat Litter - lightweight AND excellent odor control.
I started buying this Glade litter a month ago. I will not buy it again. The litter stinks, the room stinks, and the cats stink after using it. I will go back to the regular blue container without the Glade.
Not a fan!  Seems like so much technology went into getting the other Tidy Cats litter to clump better ... and it's GREAT ... the new stuff just falls apart when scoop.  Let me know when the new stuff clumps as well and I'll give it another try.
I used Fresh Step for the first time this year and prefer it over tidy cat, but it costs a little more.
I wish I did not waste my money on this product. I am a Tidy Cat user but this is the worst litter ever. It does not clump at all. My litter box pretty much turns into a sludge box when my cats use it. I have broken 1 or 2 scooper already trying to clean it. I do not recommend this.
I now have 1 cat and 2 kittens. I used this product and I smelled urine when I walked in the front door of my house. It didn't clump as well. The scented liners were a pleasure though. I switched to using the liners and fresh step multicat formula. I have no more bad smells welcoming me home
Since the change it is dustier and I have a really sensitive nose and I don't like the new smell. I wish they would have left it the way it was!
I bought this produce in hopes of having a better smell control for our cats. I did not like the smell of this product out of the container.
Unfortunately, my cats don't like the Glade litter, won't use it anymore. After the cats used it, the Glade litter smelled awful.
This Tidy Cat product smells like puke; other scents great!
I bought this hoping it would help with the oder but I am very upset to say, it didn't. My cat doesn't like the smell and everytime I pour more into the little boxs she goes crazy and runs away.
I have trouble getting clumps scooped out. They break apart. The urine smell some times is strong.
Wow--and I'll pay heed to the other comments of tracking it everywhere.  I have one cat who is very exuberant about kicking litter so it's all over my house as it is.  I tried some other type lightweight stuff--was a bit like sawdust, and I can say I will NEVER go that route again.<br/>,Cat Litter Too Heavy? Enter the Tidy Cats LightWeight Giveaway http://t.co/SJcoRCa8Or via @TheTiniestTiger"
My brother uses this, he really likes. I have the cat litter pan in boys bathroom, must scoop every day and still stinks. I can use most other "Name" brands and can scoop every 2-3 days. This does not mask smell but does clump well. Love the container, makes it easier to store. Ordered online because it is so heavy...free shipping...the price was pretty good.
I use Tidy cats clumping cat litter for years, both on indoor cats but also my barn cats are litter trained. Especially indoors I like solutions that eliminate any smells . trying out the new product with glade was a no-brainer. But: it STINKS. What went wrong there? The litter itself has a very stange, unpleasant odor, and the used litter - *uuuughhh* talking of urine smell - really bad. 28 lbs of wasted money, no way I will keep using any more of this bucket. Very disappointed :-(
I usually don't buy this kind but due to times being tough it was cheaper then my usual brand of litter I buy and I will never buy this again it did nothing for holding in the smell and I have never had any problems with clumps until trying this kind it seems like they stick to the bottom of the box and then when you try to scrap them off they just crumble into smaller pieces then you mine as well just change the whole box because of the smell. I am very disappointed and next time I'll stop being so cheap and just spend the extra $2.00 on my usual brand.
I wanted this litter to work. It didn't meet my needs at all. I gave it 6 weeks, and then gave the remaining litter I had bought at Sam's. To a shelter.
The idea sounded great, but did not live up to expectations. Instant Action still the best
I tried this for two months and it is terrible! Here is the deal. I purchased this because may daughter is responsible for her cats and the other litter is fairly heavy. The cat box is in the garage and we started noticing the ammonia smell after a week. The cat box was thoroughly scooped and the smell never stopped. We thought that one of the cats was doing his business elsewhere in the garage, but after scooping the litter box, I noticed the ammonia smell was unbearable from the box itself. I use Tidy Cat all the time, and this is the first unpleasant experience I have had with it. Basically, you cannot scoop this litter because it absorbs the urine and does not clump together. So, you get a lightweight litter, but you have to change all of the litter at once which is a very expensive way to go.
I have been loyal to Tidy Cat for over 15 years. This new formula does NOT clump well. When scooping it , it crumbles and defeats the whole point in using this type of kitty litter. Please change it back.
I agree that the litter isn't clumping like it used to. I have 3 cats and it seems like I'm having to "change" the litter just like I did with the non clumping.
Forms unscoopable, sticky paste upon contact with my cat's urine. Tried adding more/less litter to no avail. End up having to change the whole box frequently - more often than when using non-clumping litter. What happened?? I used to like clumping TidyCats! Scent also not pleasant. I like Glade products, but not in litter form.
If you have asthma this is not a good product , glade to strong to much of a   fragrance.  I can not use Scoop Away also because of this, I bought 4 large tubs and sure wish I could get my money back.
I bought this and was not happy with it ....I went back to my muilp.performace 24/7 ...was not happy at all with this new product
This Tidy Cats Lightweight commercial...I'm totally confused..."Hey!  Toss me that cat litter!!" ....what?? Who yells that from the yard??
I have never had a litter track so fast all over my house! I even put the cat box into a box to try to stop it! Horrible I had to vacume at least twice a day.
Actually, I bought TWO jugs of the lightweight litter and it was horrible. Tidy Cats, I am very disappointed.
Are you even reading these responces tidy cats. Obviously the mat outside the box isn't working. You didn't do good with this one not impressed at all.
I like Tidy Cats the rock gravel litter don't like that sand litter be everywhere I don't  think it's  expensive  It works fine for me n I think she likes it a lot she plays in it! Lol
I am a fan of if at first it doesn't succeed, try it again. Well, 2 tubs in and one more to go and I'm not satisfied. I clean my litter box every day and the smell in my house is equally as bad as using plain clay litter from DG. Glade makes it a sweeter urine smell that makes me nauseous. I will not be buying this product again, and can't believe I was stupid enough to buy 3 tubs of it to start. Money is tight for everyone, so we HAVE to finish out the tubs, but definitely will not be repurchasing. I would request a refund if I thought I could get one. Frebreeze may have been a better idea than Glade. yuck yuck yuck is all i can say.
I was so excited when I saw the Glade scented litter, bought the 35lb. pail and went through it about 3 times faster than the other 35lb. pails!  With the other types of Tidy Cat Scoop I have never smelled a urine odor coming from my cat's (covered) litter box, with the Glade version I could smell it every day!  I usually clean the box 2-3 times a week but with this stuff had to do it every day and there was still a bad odor every time she used the box.  As if the smell weren't bad enough, it doesn't clump and therefore you end up throwing the whole pan of litter out every day because it's all soaked with urine and very messy to clean up too.  I am completely disappointed and not happy that I threw good money down the drain on this inferior product.  I am considering switching back to Scoop Away.  Purina should offer some kind of rebate to people that have wasted their money of this lousy litter.
Cats do not like odor in their litter. They prefer litter that has no smell.
It does not clump urine and does not cover the ammonia smell.
While I am avid supporter of Tidy Cat, as a litter product, I have to say the match with Glade did work out so hot. I opened the fresh bucket & was immediately bowled over by the stale, yeasty scent (Just like stale beer spill on the carpet). My job deals with cleaning up stagnant beer stains, I'm very familiar with it's odor & this is a very, very close match. Does it cover the cat litter smell, yes, but not in a positve way. Stale beer smell is not any better then amonia smell. It's so intense a smell, I smell it instantly walking into my apartment, (60 feet away). So, yeah this is getting tossed out, unused because of the "glade scent." Not good. 
I like the other "Instant Action Immediate Odor Contol" Tidy Cat Litter much better. The new Glade Tough Odor isn't as powerful. I sincerely hope that you are not discontinuing the "Instant Action Immediate Odor Control." When my daughter and so-in-law were over last weekend they noticed that my house didn't smell as fresh as when I use the"Instant Action..."
The smell is not bad, but the dust is overwhelming. Especially for the price.
It's lightweight. That's it. Otherwise, it was WAY too expensive, the odor control was only mediocre, the dust was bad, and the litter was tracked all over the house. This was, by far, the worst litter I have used. I gave it a 2 month trial before switching to something else. I have 6 cats, so I was buying at least 2 jugs per week. That was at least $25 a week, just on litter. Plus I had to buy extra air freshener to help with the odor in the litter box area. After a few weeks of use, I emailed the company asking if this litter came in a larger container like the other varieties and their response was somewhat rude and that they had absolutely no plans to do that, ever. Honestly, I should have switched then. Every time I would add litter, no matter how slowly I poured it, dust went everywhere and I was constantly finding the litter stuck to my cats' paws and tracked all over the house. Sweeping became a daily chore. As if all of that weren't bad enough, one of my cats actually developed an allergic rash because of it. So, after all the expense, mess, and drama, I switched to a corn litter (World's Best).
I had very high hopes for this litter. The thought of not having to lug heavy containers around was enticing. So I bought one box. The good: 1. It is very light and easy to carry - excellent 2. The volume is the same as regular litter - very good 3. The cats love it. I have 3 cats and 3 litter boxes. Tried this in first 1 then 2 boxes to see how the cats reacted. They prefer this lightweight litter, a lot. All three prefer it over standard litter by a long shot - very good 4. No odors and very good clumping - thought we had a winner But the bad rules the day: 1. The amount of dust is incredible. Far more than any other litter I have used. I have considered wearing a dust mask. Everything near the litter boxes is covered in dust - this is horrible! 2. And the price, nearly double regular litter, is just not justified, particularly with the dust problem. So I could not recommend this to anyone and do not plan to buy again. If they got the price down (I thought it might be less expensive since the shipping costs should be so much lower) and solved the dust problem this would be a phenomenal product. Unfortunately it is not. Sorry
Waste of money because after day 1 I immediately got rid of it!!! Smells worse than anything ever!!! I usually don't mind the tidy cat but this smells like sour or rotten produce!! 
I bought this producted a couple weeks ago thinking the mixture of Glade and Tidy Cats would be a great combo. Not at all! It actually made my cats urine smell worse. As soon as we went back to Instant Action the smell went away.
We have been using Tidy Cat for at least 4 years and our friends have always said they rarely notice a smell. The minute my husband brought this stuff home and we filled up the pan. I knew this was bad news. Several times I asked my daughter to clean it, just to get rid of the smell. Don't know if I can wait till the bucket runs out. Never, ever again. Is that suppose to be Glade? Smells like used cat sand. Sorry.
Used this formula for years with three cats. Has the formula changed recently? I am having to change brands! The smell is so strong, deoderized urine mix... even in a completely fresh box on its first use. When I was buying new litter, another cat owner said they were trying to find a new litter because of exact same problem! Ugh... it's awful.
This is awful! Instead of small - removable - clumps it solidifies in the box making it IMPOSSIBLE TO CLEAN! I will NEVER purchase again. I am amazed at Tidy Cats - their products usually work!
I was disappointed. I like the cheapo litter at Walmart better then this I think.
I bought a small container of this to try it and I'm glad I didn't spend a lot. I'll start with the positive - I love the clumping of this litter! Sadly that's the only good thing. The dust is awful and the litter is so light weight it doesn't stay in the box! I had it all over my laundry room in 24 hours. Back to the drawing board Tidy Cats - you're better than this...
I got sucked in by the advertisement, which was true to only one thing - this cat litter is surprisingly light. Other than that, I can't find any pro's for it. Within 2 days, my whole house reeked of cat urine and feces - this litter does absolutely nothing for odor control. I always clean the litter box twice a day, once in the morning and once in the afternoon, and never had odor issues before, even with very cheap litter varieties. I even started scooping every time my cat did his business - it still had horrible smell. This litter doesn't clump very well, is very dusty, and gets spread everywhere. I'm returning the box back to the store (thank you, Sam's Club, for the return policy) and going back to Arm&Hammer.
I purchased the glade scented litter since it was on sale and my cats and I both love Tidy cat. However, I am not big on perfumed anything and the smell of the litter began to bother me. I also noticed my cats not using the litter boxes with the glade litter vs the regular litter.
We have 3 indoor cats and am always looking for litter value. Recently bought the Tidy Cats Clumping Litter for Multiple Cats. Very disappointed. Although it does seem to control odors, it does not clump. At least not so that you can scoop the box. When I try to scoop any clumps, they just completely fall apart making it impossible to scoop the box daily. I will not buy this product again. 
Stinks really badly, and the cats are hesitant to use it. Definitely going back to the Instant Action. The only positive is that it clumps really well.
I've been using Tidy Cat for years; prefer the original product over the one with Glade.
We have 4 show cat that hate this littler! They are accustomed to multiple cat Tidy cat so that's what we'll use!
I usually buy the 24/7 Performance. I tried this with the Glade scent, and all I can think of is that is smells like vomit. Or maybe vomit after the school custodian put that pink powder over it when I was in grade school. Horrible scent, I had to throw it out because it actually made me gag. I would rather smell the cat poo. Oh, it did clump well, so if smells don't bother you....
I am pro-Tidy cat and buy it all the time. I tried your new litter Dual Power and it is TERRIBLE. I woke up to the strongest smell of urine in the litter box. Disgusting. I'd like to be contacted for a refund.
I bought this litter box about a week ago. Hoping to save money and it be less messy. And it does both of those. But the smell is awful.  No you can't smell the urine but the litter does not cover up the poo and it smells up the bathroom it's in. my daughters room and my living room. I'm going back to a regular litter box 
I bought the product because I'm always looking for a natural, low-dust, good-clumping litter for my cat. It smells really good; there is no more "litter box smell" anymore. And it is really light-weight. But the clumps don't clump well, so they break up every time I scoop. And the dust that is raised is the worst of any brand I've tried so far, giving me a whole new reason to hold my breath while changing the litter box.
This litter does not clump! Every time I go to scoop the litter, the 'clumps' of urine break apart into little pieces and cannot be scooped by the litter scoop. It also does not control odor AT ALL. I have a domed covered litter box sitting in the corner of my bathroom, yet the smell travels throughout my apartment. Will NEVER buy this litter again. 
We've been very unhappy with the change in Tidy Cat Scoop cat litter. We purchase the 35 lb tub and mostly use the 24/7 control but occasionally get the Instant Action. The last time we purchased Instant Action it was completely different. Instead of the uniform large grains it look just like clay litter. And it worked like clay litter. After 2 days we dumped the entire thing and filled it with 24/7. Last week we purchased another 35 lb 24/7 Tidy Cat Scoop. It also look like clay litter. After 3 days (scooping twice a day) the entire house smells. I noticed at the store that the smaller containers which are translucent still have the nice clumping consistency. VERY dissatisfied with a product we have used exclusively for years.
I bought 3 large tubs of this at Walmart - approx $40 - yee gads! I am retired and have arthritis and spent beyond my budget because I was so excited to have less weight to lug around.  My entire house is covered in this stuff.  Wherever our kitty walks tons of this stuff goes with her.  The other might I was awakened by her jumping on the bed and smelling like cat litter.  Not to mention that I have to vacuum every time she uses her letter box.  Buyer beware.  Don't buy!  You will be greatly disappointed.  
I am beyond disappointed. Three of my litter boxes have been ruined by the stench of this product. It smells great when you pour it out, but you have to completely empty the litter out on a daily basis, not just scoop out waste. It's kind of like spraying expensive cologne on a pile of poop. At first you might not notice it, but then the combo is horrible! It absorbed into my boxes and no amount of bleach can get that smell out. One of the boxes is brand new! The lightweight is great, and so is the small spaces... but do not buy this one!
I was really excited when I found this litter but have been really disappointed. It gets everywhere because the cats track it out of the box. Also it is the worst litter I've ever owned smell wise, it not mask smell! I won a year supply of these coupons and was excited to make the switch (especially bc I live in a city where I have to carry my groceries home, lightweight was a great development!) but not worth it, my free vouchers are not worth having a year of misery. 
I decided to give this a try because I live on the third floor of my building and I have some trouble carrying the 35 lbs pail up the stairs. I will not buy it again. It was far dustier than the regular kind. Also, since it is lighter, my cats track it all over the place much easier. I would have to vacuum every time they use the litter box to keep the floor clean. It was not clumping as well either. The much higher price is not worth it at all. I was going to submit my receipt to get my money back, but the satisfaction guarantee link seems to have disappeared or is not currently available. Disappointing product.
I truly enjoy that I can easily handle the jug of litter, but the performance of it is horrible. The litter does little mask the smell, doesn't work well for 2 cats, and the litter gets caked into my cats paws. I have to clean their paws every time they use the litter box. I've tried it for 2 months and very dissatisfied with my purchases.
Sorry to complain.  I'm a BIG Tidy Cats person, but ... this is SURPRISING!  I'll be in touch.
This litter is HORRIBLE!!<br/>Not only does it have close to zilch odor control, but when it gets wet, it tracks all over the place!!! We won't be using it any longer, we will go back to the regular Tidy Cats.
I bought two tubs thinking it would be as good as the other tidy cats and with an even better aroma. It was horrible. It didn't control the odor like the Instant Action Tidy Cat and it didn't catch and clump the urine. I had urine covering the bottom of the cat box.. I will stick with the Instant Action.
This litter REEKS/REEKS/REEKS of PERFUME, it's over-powering, and I wasted 16 bucks on it. VILE.
I have purchased Tidy Cats clumping litter in the past but I had never used the Breathe Easy. And who are they kidding with that name? There is nothing "Breathe Easy" about it. This litter has an odor that is very strong even before the cat uses the box, after that it's worse. The combination of the litter and urine odors is over-powering. My cat's box is one of the covered types and even has a carbon filter, but you can still smell the litter and urine two rooms away! And it isn't a pleasant smell, I can't explain it but it is awful. Then there's the fact the litter turns to wet clay and stays that way so it's difficult to scoop out of the box. It's like glue and sticks to the side of the box so the odor remains. I wasted money and spent excess time scrubbing out the litter box. I will never buy Tidy Cats again. See my review on Tidy Cats for Small Spaces which now smells terrible too. I'd give the rest of it away but I can't think of anyone I hate that much.
I thought this would be a nice change from the scented scoopable smells, but the smell, when urine mixed with this litter, was horrible.  I actually dumped the whole box out the same day.  What a waste of money.  I'm happy with other TidyCats, but I would never buy this again (coupon or not!).  Sorry
I was so excited when this product came out, changed all my litter boxes. It made it able for me to use it without having to pour it in separate containers to handle it. I called Purina and was so happy with it. One week later my house was so full of a dust as fine as lady's face powder. I took a snack bag to Petsmart and all they had to do was just rub it with their fingers and it disintegrated. I had to change all my litter boxes back to original formula. Was hoping when I received this that you had worked with the formula and solved this problem. Loved the side handle on the container. It was great except for the horrible dust problem.
I have had cats for the past 30 years and have used tidy cat products for as long as I can remember. I am so disappointed in the recent changes in their products. The granules are smaller and disintegrate into dust even when the cat walks on them -- never mind when u pour it into the box. The new light weight product is the worst! The odor control is not as good either. Even the multiple cat product Does not sustain odor control. And why would tidy cats assume that everyone likes the smell of glade. It's hideous. I am searching for another brand
This is the worst kitty litter I've ever purchased. The clumping ability is horrible and now I will have to completely replace the litter in less than a week's time. I will urge all cat owners that I know to stay away from this over-priced, inferior product. I've requested a refund on the Purina website. I'm going back to using Cat's Pride which is a much better value for the money and a superior product by far than Tidy Cats.
I was disappointed in this litter, and my cats were not happy with it either. First of all, it's not worth the price, twice as much as regular litter. Secondly, the scent was too strong for me, so I know it was way too strong for the cats. They avoided that particular litter box for 3 days. And thirdly, the dust????? Oh my! Will not buy again.
I have 5 cats and 3 litter boxes........ have them in a corner of the basement.  The first two had the new litter in it (one with glade) and the other had the regular Tidy cat litter. Well I found out that after one of my cats holding it for so long and went to the bathroom  in front of me.... a few of them didn't care for  the new litter.  And one of them (one that went in front of me) was now spooked of the cat boxes.  I had to wash the boxes out and get new litter.... and now they are good again. Be careful  not all cats like this smell!  I like this brand and have used for years but I dont think adding this kind of smell is good for cats.
I bought this a couple weeks ago and although it was more expensive I thought it would be a healthier option to other dusty cat litters. The switch didn't go well. Now my cat pees all over the house instead of in her litter box. My cat hates it which means I hate it. If I still had the receipt I would take it back to the store because it was so much more expensive than the typical cat litter I buy. Now I am stuck of a whole bag of it which I will never use. I am switching back to my old litter immediately.
I've had the same problem with this product as some others that I've read comments on. This product used to work very well, but as stated by someone else, I too think they have changed the way it's made. My home stunk from the stench coming from the litter box. (yes, I clean the box regularly). Also, I too have found the litter to be thin & small which causes it to break apart when I'm scooping it out. I also find it all over the house since it sticks to my cat paws. All of this is so frustrating that I have no choice but to change to a better, & I'm sure more expensive litter.
2 months ago I changed from Scoop Away to Tidy Cat. I was happy with the low dust content and STRONG CLUMPING!!!! DON'T know what you did, but the CLUMPING IS CHANGED, THE PELLETS ARE SMALLER, AND ALOT OF FINE GRIT. CLUMPING QUALITY HAS CHANGED, CLUMPS FALL APART AND THEY DIDN'T BEFORE!!!! COLOR IS NOW GREY, NOT THE LIGHTER COLOR IT WAS!!!! UPSET!!!! BOUGHT 2 LARGE PAILS AND BOTH ARE LIKE THIS!!! YOU CHEAPED OUT ON THE QUALITY!!! YOU NEED TO GO BACK TO THE TO THE QUALITY YOU OFFERED MONTHS BACK !!!!!!!!!
I have 4 cats and have always used tidy cats brand. This product is supposed to recuse Oder and does not. I scoop thier boxes 3 times a day as they do not like dirty boxes and the Oder in that room is awful regardless of what I do. I will never punches this product again nor recommend it to anyone. I wasted my money when I purchased it. The worst product yet that they have put out.
I think Tidy Cats is a great litter to use, but this Glade fragrance is gross! I thought my cats were getting sick because their litter smelled so bad, but then realized it was the smell of their urine and feces mixed with the fragrance of this litter. Not a good combination! I will continue to use Tidy Cats, but not this formula. 
Because I work in rescue, people have been sending my your coupons, knowing I can always use litter.  I bought a container and LOVE the weight and texture but cannot use anything so heavily scented.  The heavy scent creates problems with the cats, they quit using the box.  PLEASE CREATE A SCENT FREE VERSION OF THIS GREAT NEW PRODUCT.
We bought this product about two weeks ago. The cats seem to like it, but we do not. The dust it creates is terrible - when the cats scratch in the litter box and when we clean it. The liquid waste clumps break into small pieces when trying to scoop them up. We are going to switch back to the conventional clumping litter. This product is unsatisfactory.
This litter is ok at best. I gave it two stars because it does work well at controlling odor, clumping, and is lightweight to carry and scoop. However the dust that this creates compared to the normal litter is terrible. You also seem to need to use twice as much. Also the lightweight makes it easier for my cat to kick large amounts right out of the box. Save the money and suck up the weight and get the normal litter if possible. 
It is lightweight, and I love that. Scooping is easier, the bags are lighter to take out. BUT it is not dust-free at all, much less 99.99% When I pour it in, a huge dust cloud erupts and makes me cough. The worst part of it, and the main reason that I shall not purchase it again, is that it tracks so horribly. It is seriously ALL OVER my house. Up the stairs, in my bed, in every single room. It is truly awful. I wish I had saved my receipt to get my money back, but I trusted TidyCats to not disappoint me. Unfortunately that was not the case.
I do not typically buy Tidy Cats but had a great coupon, a sale, and another promotion and thought it would not cost me much to try something new.  I got the long lasting formula for multiple cats even though I only have one cat at home.  The stuff is pretty dusty when you pour it in but I would expect that.  What I didn't expect...
I tried this lightweight litter for several months and have decided I wasted my money! While light weight is helpful to carry, the cats scratch it out of the box in drifts and track it all over!  The litter never really adequately absorbs the urine forming a slushy "quicksand" and leaves a thick film on the cat's feet which they have great difficulty removing, eventually rejecting use of the box altogether (even though I cleaned the box daily).  I used 3-4 times more of the lightweight litter compared to the original litter.  I can't imagine the horror of this stuff in the summer heat!!!  I will warn everyone in the litter section deciding on a brand of litter to puchase to never buy this product!
It is too bad this product is not more effective because it is light. I found it was very dusty and had a offensive scent. When the cat used the box, the litter clumped well but did nothing to neutralize the odor. In fact, it was very strong and made the whole house smell. I expected more from this product because I have used Tidy Cats for so long. I will switch back to the other type. Would like to get my money back.
I thought this product would be a great idea. I have always used Tidy Cats litter, but I just bought the new light-weight product. I now find wet/dry paw prints with cat litter on my vinyl and hardwood floors that I have to use a wet rag to clean up. I never had this issue with the harder cat litter. Sure, I would find some pieces of cat litter on my floors with the regular Tidy Cats, right around the litter box, but easy enough to sweep up. The cost of this new litter is not worth the extra work to wipe up the paw prints in my house!
I have two female kitties (6 and 14 years old). While it's apparent that they like some brands/formulas better than others, they have never been fussy about litter. With Tidy Cats Light, it's obvious from the continual poop just inches from the box that they're not liking this. (Vet confirms no other issues that would lead to this behavior at this time.) Additionally, the perfume in the litter is SO strong that it has turned on allergies for ME that I've not experienced in many years! We're going back to the cheap, perfume-free, slightly heavier litters. Despite the sticker on the bucket, neither the cats nor I are satisfied with this product. Hopefully, Tidy Cat will go back to the lab and resolve the issues with their product. At least put a "perfume" warning on the bucket...... there's none on the bucket I've purchased.
I purchased the light weight tidy cats, because of the light weight. I am 77 years old and have a hard time lifting. I am not happy with the product as advertising continuous odor control. I empty the litter every morning and still find I can smell the odor a room away from the room where the box is. I will not buy this product, not only because it is too expensive but, does not perform as advertised.
It being lightweight is the best feature of this litter. The cats track it everywhere, the odor control is no better than any other litter I've used. It's too expensive. I won't be buying it again.
It sounded like a great concept. I thought - who would use the heavy litter when this product is available? Even the higher price didn't cause me to think twice if I could save my back by not lifting heavy litter ever again. My mind is imaging a redo of the TV commercial featuring actors tossing the light weight container from one to the other. The last person to catch the container should just toss it in the nearest trash can! I have two cats. I started using the light weight litter on a Monday and by Tuesday afternoon I was dismayed to find that the litter and accompanying white dust carried throughout the house on my cat's paws. The regular Tidy Cat litter usually just scattered a mere 4-5 feet from the litter box, but the light weight litter and dust was on all of my hardwood floors, the carpeted stairs leading to the second floor of my house, and on all of the carpeting. I had white foot prints all over my dining room table and the glass top surfaces of my coffee tables and kitchen table. Every time we walked on the floors we had crunching under our feet. I immediately emptied the litter box of the light weight litter and refilled it with the old tried and true heavy litter. I swept all the floors and did a cursory vacuuming. The following day I was still seeing some white foot prints. Today our cleaning lady is coming to wash all the floors and do a thorough vacuuming. I expect I will see better results today. I would not recommend anyone purchase this light weight litter unless they want to spend everyday cleaning up their homes from it.
Two of our cats, sisters, had litters together within a week of each other. They both have always shared one litter box and we've never ever had trouble with accidents. When they had their babies, we knew the clumping litter we were using for the momma cats wasn't going to be safe for the kittens when they were ready to use the litter box on their own. After doing some research and seeing the great reviews for the Breeze system, I purchased one system plus one extra bag of pellets and liners. Right away things were messy. With just the adult cats, only 2, using it for the first few weeks, we were not entirely happy with the new system. The pellets attach to the poo and make scooping difficult. If they have less than perfectly solid poo, the poo smears around the inside of the box, onto the scoop and makes removal of the feces gross and messy. I have to keep a box of wipes next to the litter box (which I see they actually now sell in some stores just for this system) to wipe up the goopy poo inside the box and off the scoop. Cats can not bury their poo with these pellets, so the poo stays on top and stinks to no end. I can't say if it's worse than regular litter stink, but it's either just as bad, or worse, because at least with the regular litter the business gets buried and isn't exposed to the air for long. We have always been frequent scoopers, usually 2-3 times a day at least. Now with this system I am scooping every hour or two. With regular litter the cats bury everything and they can stand on the top and go some more. With the Breeze system there is nothing to cover poo up with so it all just sits on top, leaving fewer and fewer places for the cats to go until it's all scooped away. In addition to the pellets being smudged with poo smears and not staying clean, with the kittens now using the litter box regularly, their poo is too small to get collected with the scoop. Their poo is about the same size of the pellets, and fall right through. So we have a collection of many little pieces of kitten poo that we can't scoop. The only solution we have found is to pick them out by hand, or with the edge of the scoop- both painstaking and gross, and not very effective even then- or dump it all every few days and start over with fresh pellets. The pellets are around $8 per bag, and the bag is quite small, maybe a couple cups worth. We are finding we need to use about two bags at a time, and the pellets last us about a week, not one month as advertised. The poo remaining on the pellets just makes it impossible to let them sit in the box for longer unless you don't mind your cats walking on their exposed poo several times per day. The pellets are hard and solid, and heavy. The 3 1/2 lb bags for sale aren't actually very much and barely cover the bottom of the pan. Most cat owners will probably want at least two bags to give their cats something to dig in. Our cats refused to use this system the first whole 24 hours we set it up. We went the cold turkey route, and they held their business until they had no choice. They clearly didn't like it at first, but since they finally gave in they have been just fine and no accidents at all. The kittens have been doing fine using this system so far. We are seeing them all using it now with no problems. Every now and again we would see a kitten try to eat a pellet but it really didn't turn out to be a big problem like we worried it might. Be prepared that the pellets do still land outside the box. Imagine stepping on legos as you walk around your house- except these are covered with poo remnants. At first the pellets stayed mostly in and around the outside of the box, with just a few outside. Now we see more and more everyday and much farther away from the box and into other rooms. Often they have clumps of dried poo on them still, or you can see the dried smeared poo on them. Gross. The bottom drawer holds a pad, much like a puppy pad, for the cat urine to pass through the pellets and be soaked up. I will say this feature is the best of the system. I have not noticed any odor from urine from this system. The pads do overflow and 'sweat' or leak a bit onto the plastic tray if they get overfull. We have to change ours every couple of days for the two cats, and now eight kittens, though I believe I'd still need to change it every 2-4 days with just the two cats. Again, this is an expense you don't foresee when investing in the system. With just two adult cats we need two bags each week, plus one package of pads per one and a half to two week period. That is about $80-$90/mo to maintain the system. I'm not sure it's really worth the extra expense. We spent about $30-$40 a month on clumping litter each month, for about the same level of work and grossness. I can't say I really recommend this product, as it's almost an even trade. I would take the money you'd spend on this system and the first month's accessories to maintain it and put it toward a good quality large, traditional litter box, mat, and cover for odors, and a giant box of baking soda.
I think Tidy Cat used to clump much better in years past. It seems now that they have "new and improved" litters they have taken some of the good from the less expensive clumping litters...meaning, now the plain old Clumping Tidy Cat litters either the red or blue labeled tubs don't clump like they used to. The number 2 clumps stay together just fine but the urine clumps simply fall apart every time I try to soop them. I used this litter for many many years then took a break from it, using a very expensive one...for reasons I'll not go into right now.....now I've gone back to using the Tidy Cat litter and I'm seriously considering returning to the expensive stuff again....at least the urine doesn't break apart when I scoop them. I miss the better clumping that Tidy Cat once had in their cheaper line. 
For the love of all that is holy, do NOT buy this mess. If you want quality for light weight go with pine or newspaper pellets. Firstly this stuff STANK. It does -nothing- for odor. Secondly... imagine packing peanuts masquerading as cat litter. The cats sank into it because it has no weight. Which means they got litter (and what was in said litter) ALL over them every time they got in the box. And it sticks to EVERYTHING. Especially their feet. This stuff is ALL over my house now. It floats, it flies, it... just... just NO. If I had to summarize what this stuff was like I'd say it was urine activated concrete. It was impossible to scoop the urine because it just sank to the bottom and became sticky concrete clay gunk. Just HORRIBLE. I've concluded whoever wrote that 5-star review was a paid reviewer because no one in their right might would ever use this stuff twice.
I think the smell is fabulous and most importantly, my cat doesn't seem to mind new litter in his litter box so yay! I will use this brand for now on...
I wanted to love this cat box. My son has it for his 2 cats and it has been a complete success for them. But we have one 20# cat and it has not been a positive experience AT ALL ! The pee does go through in to the pad and it absorbed and there is no odor. But...and this is a huge issue...the poop , as many others have stated, lays on top and just stinks. Our cat digs and digs and DIGS trying to bury his poop but to no avail. It is on the surface of the litter until we run out there and clean it up. His poop is very firm so the issue of having to lift it out is minimal . But the odor ! Whew...horrible. And the other problem is that the litter always stinks whether there is fresh poop in the box or not. There is no odor control with these pellets...none. Also the pellets stick in his feet and we find them in random places around the house. He limps until we notice it or one falls out. At this very moment I went in to the sun room just to check and see if he had used it due to the odor wafting in to the rest of the house. Nope...it is just a faint to moderate barnyard odor...24/7. I hate the clumping litter as our whole floor was covered with the stuff...but at least there was NO odor and the poops were completely covered. I don't know what we are going to do. I hate to be out the money but this is intolerable. I have no reason to believe it is going to get better. It is only great the first day or so with the new pellets and then we are back to the barnyard. I sure wish that the people that wrote the other reviews had been truthful and I wish I had been the one doing the research and not my husband. I always read the one star reviews first and I would never have purchased this system. Buyer beware.
Since we moved the litter box to the master bath adjoining the bedroom, I thought this product would be perfect. WRONG!!! It neither clumps nor eliminates odor. There was a constant strong smell of cat urine. We scoop the box daily, but it did no good as the clumps just crumbled. I finally threw out the remaining litter and replaced the whole box with the regular Tidy Cat, which has always served us well.
I bought this on a whim, because it was easy to carry home, as I don't have a car. It wworks great for clumping and scents, but it tracks everywhere around my house. I even have a foot mat for the cats outside the litter boxes, and it still gets everywhere in my house. I have to vaccuum constantly.
I have used this litter for years and have always been very happy, until recently. When I purchased the last two (I thought I might have received a bad batch the first time) the color of the litter had changed to a darker shade and when used the litter does not clump and falls apart when you pick it up and the smell is horrible. What happened?
I have been choosing tidy cats brand for years and am always pleased with the product. This one I will never buy again. When I first poured it the smell surprised me. It smells like rotten citrus. A very strong, pungent odor that I do not like at all. It still seems to clump well but I just can't deal with that smell.
I opened the package and the smell made me want to return it to the store. not sure these are really Natural scents. I would like to see a list of ingredients....cannot find on website or package.
At the recommendation of my son, I tried Tidy Cats with Glade litter in my cats litter boxes. What I found, was that when I had my windows open, the litter smell was very strong in the air. In addition, I was unhappy with the clumping. It had a tendency to break up in the litter box and the scoop, leaving me with soiled litter left in the litter box.
I was super excited to see this product and try it out, as I live in an upstairs apartment and the "lightweight" quality is a big plus. However, now that I've used it for over a week, I've soundly decided that as soon as I go to the store and purchase some of the old Tidy Cats formula, this stuff is going straight into the trash. Pouring the litter into the box created a virtual smoke screen of litter dust, which is similarly kicked up every time it is scooped. Likewise, my cat no longer smells like...well, cat...she smells like Tidy Cats Litter ALL THE TIME. Seeing how much of a dust cloud it creates when I scoop it, I can only imagine the dust storm when my cat uses the litter. And, frankly, the thought of all that overly perfumed dust being inhaled by her (and not to mention me) really bothers me. That and the last thing I want to smell every time I pick up my cat is her litter. That dust clings to her and everything else in a three foot radius around the litter box.
I bought this for my new kitten and she had no problem transitioning but solid waste smells awful. The smell lingers for hours even though I clean it as soon as she goes. It also looses litter as soon as she covers it and I scoop. I know I'll be investing in a lot of pellets. I would never recommend this product and if wasn't so expensive I'd take it back.
Bought this product on special. Its 99.9% dust, guessing its due to a finer liter, it stinks and doesn't kill the odor. My liter box is in the laundry room off the kitchen and I could smell odor hours after my cat had used the box. I have been using Tidy Cat since 1984 and wouldn't change. I swear by most of the products. Since the clumping, dust free came out, I have used it. I will not be buying the Glade product ever again. I love the 24/7 with the red cap. Please don't ever change anything in that formula. I have and will always recommend Tidy Cats to friends, but not the Glade formula.
I bought this litter about a month ago and it is the worst little I have ever used.  The litter is so light that it stays on the cat when he comes out of the cat and is now all over the house.  I have to vacuum in front of the litter box everyday something I have never had to do before.  I have litter on my tables, in my kitchen and in my bathroom.  Basically throughout my entire house.  With a newborn this is a major concern of mine.  There is also a major odor problem with this litter.  My cat is an antisocial biter and scratcher who would be put down by any other owner who would not understand he has an anxiety disorder that causes this behavior.  He does use his litter box religiously so I know he is not marking the house but when we walk in at the end of the day it smells as if he has gone in every room in the house.    I will never use this litter again and will be switching back to my old litter today.  
I was so hopeful about this new litter, it really is so much lighter.  I emptied and washed the litter box and refilled it with the new lightweight litter.  The first thing I noticed was that it is very dusty, had a different texture to it and is very "perfume-y".  My cat would not even get into the litter box!  I kept thinking that when he had to go badly enough he would use it, but no such luck.  After 2 days I went back to the store and purchased the regular Tidycat I had been using.  He used the litter box right away.  I guess it was the heavy perfume smell that kept him away.  If they make an unscented version of the lightweight litter I might try it again, although I do have concerns that the "feel" of it is different and might pose another problem.  Please don't stop making the regular Tidycat in favor of this stuff!
I bought this product and had high hopes of covering up that yucky poo smell. well I was in for a surprise :'( and a bad one. I opened the tub of tidy cat (35lbs) and it smelled like a nasty beer smell. I couldn't believe what I was smelling it was so nasty. I thought well maybe its the tub, so I put it in my kitty's box and the next day walked into the room and the ENTIRE room smells like a bad beer!!! Im not sure if I got a bad batch but I will wont waste my money on more to find out. Its seriously horrible.
I have 4 cats and a 5 litter boxes, I was was happy with my regular cat litter, but saw this was litter cheaper and so I decided to try it. I bought 4 boxes. BIG MISTAKE! I am very paranoid about smells and clean my litter box every day. BUT after using this product for just 2 days with regular cleaning, the whole house smelled. Now I am out 48.00 for two day job I will never move away from FreshStep again. EVER!
I bought this thinking it would be amazing and smell great. Man was I wrong. The odor it has just alone made me sick but then you add cat urine and it was unbearable. It works like a charm just like the others but the ADDED scent is over powering and not pleasant to my nostrils. Will never TRY new products, I will just stick with the classics I already love.
This new litter might be lightweight, but that's all it's got going for it. First of all, it's way too expensive. No cat litter should cost that much especially for what you are getting - dust all over, litter being tracked all over the house and floors, including my bed and litter stuck between my cats' toes. I have dark hardwood floors all over my house and it was a complete disaster. If you have light rugs and floors, you might not notice it as much, but believe me it's there. I honestly don't know how they tested this product. I put the jug of unused litter in my trunk and brought it back to where I purchased it and got a full refund. I tried the new Tidy Cat with Glade and what a difference. I have three cats and this litter has the least amount of tracking out of all the Tidy Cat and other litters I have ever tried. The Glade smell is not my favorite, but it's light and not strong and hopefully one day they will change the scent.
I've been using this product for about 8 months. Was happy with it a first, loved the smell, but it didn't last long. When scooping, the clumps broke apart. And the worst part was when washed the litter boxes, took out the litter and scraped out any stuck littler. As I washed the litter boxes, they felt slimy and I really had to scrub hard to get them really clean. I'm going back to the clumping clay litter. Oh and the stores that I was able to buy it, no longer carry and is hard to find.
I love that it is lightweight, but the smell is absolutely awful. I clean the box several times a day and it still stinks. Her box is in the laundry room and you can smell it through out the entire house. Keep working on it and I may try it again in the future.
I'm glad I only bought one jug of this to try. This smells absolutely horrible. It has a sour smell, just plain nasty. I have been using regulary Tidy Cat in the jugs (scoopable) for years, and have liked it very much. I would recommend regulary Tidy Cat, but not Tidy Cat with Glade~~it's awful. Yukky!!!
I have used the Tidy Cat Litter Liners consistently since 1987 and have found them to be an effective way to keep my cats litter pans clean as well as easy to keep clean.  However I just opened a new box of the 12count Tidy Cat litter liners and almost could not stand the smell!  This is NOT a " light fresh scent"!  It is a very strong perfume smell which neither I nor my cats like!!  And a cat which is repelled by its litter pan is a disaster!!  Please go back to the original more "deodorizing" smell which was tolerable and at least not overwhelmingly strong!!  If this is the permanent new scent for Tidy Cats liners, then I will have to start buying another brand for the first time since 1987!
I like the smell, but my cat hates it. He will not use the litter box. I will not buy again.
I tried this light weight stuff for a month.  My condo never smelled so bad.  I agree it is light weight.  But it is also light weight in odor control.  Never buy it again.   BUT read more.   I gave the small spaces by tidy cat a try reluctantly after the light weight purchase,   Same price as other tidy cay I have used regularly and it is awesome.   I don't even smell any order in the condo after a week of used. ( I do scoop daily) I will definetly buy small spaces again.  
The urine passes through the pellets and onto the pad like it is supposed to, but the pellets begin to smell awful after just a couple days. I replaced the absorbent pad, but my cat wouldn't use it again until I replaced the pellets. The pellets are too expensive to replace every few days. I'll just stick to clumping litter.
This may seem a great idea to a pet-owner, but my furry five have spoken, they really dislike the strongly parfumed smell of Tide with Glade. I (they) love the Tidy Cats Power blend , it clumps wonderfully and keeps litter boxes cleanest longest without any overpowering smells and the granules are perfect, no fine dust caking to cause a mess. If it only was cheaper, with 5 adult cats I can't afford $ 10 for 20lbs. so I go for the 35lbs buckets of Tidy Cats Instant Action which I can buy for $ 9.50 at Target, when on sale, other than that Power Blend would be my ONLY choice for Cat Litter, period.
Ok, I normally use the red lid for multiple cats (4 beasts) but the store was out. I change it out every month give or take a few days so the litterboxes aren't too bad stink wise for the most part. This tidy cats with glade worked fine for a week. Then a foul sweetish rancid odor started coming out of the litterboxes. I gave it about another week and a half, adding baking soda to cut down that smell. Never.again. will I buy this type. It is just plain nasty nasty nasty. Don't get me wrong it clumps just fine but that stench is just so gross, especially in a small house.
It LOOKS like Tidy Cats. It CLUMPS like Tidy Cats. But in no way for my two cats did it CONTROL ODOR like Tidy Cats usually does. Something about the smell of the Glade Tough Odor just constantly smells like cat urine. I tried cleaning out the litter box completely and starting with fresh litter but I still smelled something... foul... in the air. Once we switched back to normal Tidy Cats 24/7 performance or any other multiple cats blend, there was no more odor. I will not be buying the Glade blend again.
I have used tidy cat litter for years and after being dissatisfied with my last purchase of it I recently tried the tidy cats light weight instead. The litter almost seemed like it was wet after only a day or two.... It was so bad I had to dump both of my litter boxes and start fresh after not even using them for a full week
I bought this item about 2 months ago to try and I do have some issues with the product. First what I like about it is the weight. It is not a struggle to carry around and the price is good. But the down side for me is #1 it is way too dusty. The room I keep the cat box in stays dusty all the time. #2 It tracks through my whole house even with rugs to catch it from the feet of the cats. #3 the scent. I prefer something that is unscented. Until these things are improved on I would probably not buy it in the future.
I am firmly committed to Tidy Cat litter. This light weight litter says 99.9 dust free. That is untrue. I have dust from this stuff everywhere. I taste it in my mouth when I clean the litter box. Those tiny, tiny white balls are all over the placed. Blocked up my hand-held vacuum. For me the scent is light and non-intrusive. The entire area around the litter boxes is messy. I will return to the regular Tidy Cats which I have been using for quite a while. I read these "wonderful" reviews and wonder who is really writing them. Please try again Tidy Cat.
BAG TIDY CAT LITTER is the worst cat litter I have ever purchased. This bag contained mostly DIRT not sand. Would not sift excess through litter scooper. Actually, I have purchased the same BAG litter from other sources and found the same problem. What a heavy smelly mess. I DO RECOMMEND same brand and type if purchased in LARGE PLASTIC CONTAINERS. Do not understand why the bag litter is so awful, but plastic container litter is perfect and does not contain dirt.
Yes - it is my fault for not recognizing that a 7lb container of kitty litter is beyond tiny. I wouldn't normally order kitty litter online but I herniated my back and was trying to decrease the amount of weight I have to carry from the grocery store. Anyway - these containers are so small, I now realize, (just from seeing the size of the shipping box - I never even opened the box), that I could get at least 10 of these for the same price at Walmart - maybe even more. But what really irks me, beyond the exorbitant pricing is that when I went to proceed with a return - the online site advises that this item is not returnable!!!!! I never even opened the shipping box. However I called Amazon and the representative could not have been more helpful. He said there is nothing in the policies to prevent a return and provided me an immediate refund for the item. PLEASE don't buy this item. Find a more reasonably priced one - please! I love Amazon - but this is definitely not up to their usual standards.
I have always used Tidy Cat. I was so excited to see this product come out. I purchased it right away. However I am extremely dissappointed. While scooping this littler, it is extremely dusty and I mean extremely. The air is so thick with the dust that you can barely see. It leaves a film all over anything near it. Thank heavens it is in my unfinished basement. It can't be healthy for the cats. Also, they track it all over the house more so than the other kind. I am constantly sweeping up litter around the house. I've never had to do that before. I have never wrote a review on any product ever in my life. I could not let this one go. Not worth the higher price and with all the extra cleanup etc. not worth the light weight.
Yes, this litter is very lightweight and does last longer than the generic brand litter. So if that's all that sells you, you'll like this litter. However, the dust and tracking is the absolute worst of any litter I've tried, even the generic brands. I expect some tracking, but this one is way worse than the usual. I'm hacking, sneezing and coughing when I scoop, and I do scoop daily. Odor blocking is the same as any other litter, nothing special. I won't be purchasing this sadly, I'm not crazy about the price, either. I'll stick to the regular Tidy!
Bad don't like it at all. Al the rest are fine but the glad one just makes it smell worse
I bought this litter because I thought that the Glad would help cover odors for our two cats. We clean the litter box twice and sometimes three times a day. And it still constantly reeks of ammonia and nearly knocks me over. I was very disappointed and couldn't wait to use this up so we could try another brand.
I just bought my first bag of Pure Nature cat litter. It came with a sticker on it for a full rebate at the website Tidycats.com/Pure Nature Rebate. I logged onto that website but I cannot locate anything about redeeming the rebate. I figured I would pull up a rebate form to print out and go from there. No such luck. Can you help me locate it. Thanks for any help. I gave it one star because cats are very slow to go for any thing new and as yet, not one has used that particular box. But, I only put it out a day or so ago. Hopefully, they will love it!
I wish I had read the reviews before buying this stuff. When I saw this new litter , I thought WOW, that'll be great to tote the distance when I need to change the box next time, so I bought it. Well, thats when it all went down hill !!!!!!!! This stuff was sooooo DUSTY that EVERY DAY, EVERYTHING had a film on it. It also tracks so badly it was EVERYWHERE and I have a tracking mat right outside the box that was shaken daily! If that wasn't bad enough, it doesn't reduce he smell a fraction of their regular litter. BUT...WORST OF ALL....the cats were covered in it, sneezing and looking miserable. I fanally had enough, and double wrapped it in pastic bags, then trashed it. DO NOT SUBJECT YOUR CAT, YOURSELF or YOUR HOME TO THIS OR WASTE YOUR HARD EARNED MONEY.
What a horrible product.... it's got more dust than any other litter and the cats will not use it. I used to buy regular tidy cats figured I would try this.... Nope. In fact I'll probably switch brands all together.
I used to buy it for years and always been satisfied with its drying action, lack of perfumed scent, efficiency in eliminating odors and clumping. However within the last couple of months, I noticed a huge difference. It looks like something was added to the formula. Urine drains to bottom of kitty litter box instead of staying closer to the surface even if you have 3 inches of litter, and litter becomes extremely sticky mass that's very difficult to remove. Litter clumps are not dry at all, even if you clean litter box twice a day, with one cat use. The formula has been changed and definitely for the worst. Sadly I will have to try some other brand.
Ive been a Tidy Cats costumer for years and I have always gotten this litter and had no problems with it. But recently I bought it, and it doesn't work at all. The odor control isnt working. I want a refund or something. Im so dissapointed. Its ridiculous.
I have been using LightWeight for 3 weeks and cannot believe this is rated 99.9% dust free. I have a HEPA air filter that goes to full power every time the cats use the liter box. There is a cloud of dust no matter how fast/slow or large/small I scoop. I would not recommend this for inside use if you have any issues with dust or breathing. BUT, from the perspective of ease of scooping and handling, this product is superior. I have rated it 2 stars because I love the weight and ease but cannot live with the dust and tracking issues. Great concept, though. The rooms adjacent to the cats' area need to be dusted daily...so I'm not so sure how sanitary this is, overall. Sorry! I am trying out a mix of this product and the Glade Tidy Cat to see if that works. Still would like to know how they came up with a higher dust free rating than the other products...NOT IN MY HOUSE!
I have always used other Tidy Cats litter and have been pleased. However, I am disappointed to find that the light weight litter was not 99.9% dust free as they claim on the back of the bottle. You can actually see the cloud of dust when scooping the box. My cat has a chronic upper respiratory condition and I rely on Tidy Cats to live up to their claim. I will not buy this product again, but will remain a Tidy Cats customer.
I bought this cat litter because of it being lightweight. I was very surprised when I looked on the container and it says 99.9% dust free. I have never bought another cat litter with this much dust. I have 4 cats and 2 litter boxes so they need to be cleaned constantly. There is so much dust when I clean these litter boxes that I need to wear a mask over my nose and mouth because of inhaling the dust. I will not buy this cat litter again.
The scent and odor control of this litter is horrible. My bathroom, trash can and litter box smelled like an old diaper pail after only a few days. In addition, the litter does not clump well. Instead there are flat "pancakes" of litter that do not stick together well when they are scooped. I had to throw out the litter, my trash can and the box. This was the worst purchase ever. So Gross!
 This product does not clump like regular tidy cat .I am having to dig it out of my box even with four inches of litter.And the fragrance is over powering.Plus the tracking all over the house. I love the regular tidy cat and will be going back to it.Try again Purina great idea just needs some tweaking. 
My previous litter was Tidy Cats Crystal Blend, but wanted to try this new light weight. I like that it is easier to lift, but it produces WAY TOO MUCH dust!  The cats sneeze after using it, and my sinuses go crazy each time I clean out the litter boxes (twice daily). And there seems to be a lot scattered across the floor to sweep up, and dusting the whole room more because of it.  I will probably go back to using the crystals blend.  Why can't that be made lighter weight?
I thought this was a great product - very lightweight - until I opened the jug. Why can't you be honest on the label and say this is a scented product? The odor is so horrible, my cats won't go near the litterbox. I bought 2 jugs, and am stuck with this foul odor. And, I won't even go into the tracking and dust problems. A total waste of money - stick with Precious Cat Respiratory Relief - clumps well, no dust, a bit expensive but worth it.
Bought the light weight and was very disappointed. It was extremely dusty and my cats are sneezing after they use the boxes. The idea is good, but the product is not. Did anyone try this before it was put on the market? Will not buy it again.
While I love the reduced weight, I find that it doesn't clump hard like the regular litter. It clumps in huge sticky clumps tha are hard to get off edges of litter box when scooping. I won't buy it again until it clumps as well as the old. Keep working on it!
I bought this litter since I also am getting up in years and don't have the strength to carry the larger containers up the stairs to my home. I do like the light weight of the package but the clouds of dust from pouring, scooping or when the cats used it so aggravated my lung condition that I had to have it removed from the house. Great idea but it is the dustiest litter I have ever had. Sorry won't purchase it again.
I've been using this litter for almost 4 months. I LOVE how much lighter it is and if my review were based solely on that, then I would have given it 5 stars. However, the amount of dust is just too much! Not only is there a LOT of dust, it sticks to everything - the cats, me, floor...etc. I sneeze and cough, and then need to change my shirt whenever I clean the cat box - I clean it 1-2 times a day. I can no longer justify purchasing this product, nor recommend it to family and friends.
I've been a cat owner for years and have always happily used Tidy Cats products. However, while I am thankful for the new concept of light-weight litter, I am very disappointed in this particular product because it is TOO DUSTY!!!! When cleaning my cats' litter boxes, I have to hold my breath with every scoop...I just wish I could tell my cats to do the same when using the litter box. I definitely will NOT BE BUYING this particular product again!!
 I've tried every kind of litter from organic corn or sawdust to what I always come back to, tidy cats clay scoopable cat litter. I have a family of five cats, so I spend A LOT of time in the litter box, so you can imagine the excitement I had when I saw there was a light weight tidy cat litter. I tried it as soon as it came out and I tried it for about a month or so and I've found that it doesn't really dry and is really hard to scoop, it gets really stuck to the litter box. I'm switching back to regular weight tidy cat now. I love the idea of the light weight tidy cat I just hope they improve the absorbing problem, I'd love to try an improved version.
I love that the LightWeight litter is so light, BUT the litter is now tracked through out every inch of my home, quite the disaster. I bought the heavier Tidy Cats litter after testing all of the other brands for track ability. Tidy won hands down because the litter stayed in the box and I've enjoyed it for the past 4 years. I will go back to the heavy formula happily still satisfied but no way with the LightWeight.
I bought the product because it was advertised as being light weight - which it is, BUT it produces a lot of dust/dusty white film that is everywhere on and around my litter box.  I like the lighter weight but I do NOT like the dust/film.  I will not buy this again.  It says it is 99.9% dust free.......not true.
Sticks to the cats feet and is now all over our house. Used to use the Tidy Cats Multicat and decided to try the new light weight. Besides the added cost over the Tidy Cats litter we used to use, it seems dustier and needs to be changed more often. We will not buy this again. Our cats will thank us.........
I have used Tidy Cats Breathable and Small Spaces, both of which I love, and recommend to anyone.  Thought a light weight litter would be good.  NOT!  The dust is terrible when I pour it or scoop it.  And because it's lightweight, it gets scratched right out of the litter pan.  NEVER buy this!  I'm giving this a one star only because there is no zero star!!
I love the weight and the easy clean litter box however and it's a BIG however. It is terribly dusty and gets tracked all over the house. I am constantly having to vaccum in order not to crunch little round pebbles to dust! Won't buy it again.
I thought I would try this light weight litter and it is awful! My whole bathroom is covered in dust from this stuff. I couldn't even breathe when cleaning out the litter..need a face mask I guess. The regular clumping litter is 100% better. 
I loved the idea of a lighter-weight litter container, however, that's where the benefits of this new product ended. The litter is so light that it sticks to the cat's paws and they track it everywhere. When cleaning the litter box, the clumps break into small pieces which makes it harder to pickup. It also takes a long time to "clump" so my cats end up with wet paws when leaving the litter box after scratching around in it. I don't think there was enough testing done on this product before releasing.
I liked the fact that this was so lightweight, but the dust it generated was horrible. It also did not clump well or keep odor controlled. I would never buy again.
We have 3 cats. I wanted to try this because of the light weight. I didn't realize light weight was how it would work. Our house smells like litter box when we walk in--this never happened with Fresh Step, so we'll go back to the other brand. Sorry.
used to use this litter, then switched to Sam's club's, which was great. just bought Tidy cat clumpable last time and it is terrible. the clumps crumble and you cannot get the litter clean. both my cats and I am unhappy!
Tracking ALL over the house - gross. I'm cleaning constantly! Taking the unused bottle back to the store. Will NOT buy again.
I bout this because the store was completely out of Scoop Away. Wasted my money and time. It takes me 3 times as long cleaning the tiny clumps of urine. Won't buy this ever again. 
I bought this cat litter two days ago and I have to immediately clean my cats box after they get done or my house is unbearable. I pride myself on being a cat owner who has no cat order in her house but this is absolutely the worst litter I have ever purchased. I am so disappointed. I am on such a limited budget and can't afford to buy any other litter at this time either. I am in tears!!!
I tried this because I wanted to try a safe clumping litter. I will not buy again. I find it tracks easily and my cats throw it around like sand in a sandbox. It sticks to their fur and feet so I find it all over my hard floor surface, bedding and furniture. I don't mind vacuuming around the box but I find it everywhere! Not fun. Odor control is about average. I normally use Feline Pine and will be switching back. I have two kittens and would not recommend if you want a clean odor free home.
I bought three containers of the lightweight litter.  I previously used the regular tidy cat.  The new litter is horrible!  It gets stuck in my cat's paws and if her feet get wet in the litter box, I have footprints all over the floor.  I went back to the regular tidy cat and would NEVER BUY the lightweight litter again.
The lightweight is great...but not worth the mess. We have tile floors & area rugs. I "feel" the litter everywhere in my socked or slippered feet. One cat, small house. This stuff must really cling to her feet. I am going to try to mix it with "regular" weight litter to use the rest of the large container. After just one day, there was at least a quarter cup of litter in front of her enclosed cat box. Awful. (as far as recommendation, I DO like Tidy Cats clumping litter- just not this new lightweight, at all.)
It is like sand and does not clump. It is lightweight but my cat flung it out of the box and I used more of it than I did of the regular cat litter. Will not buy it again!
I bought 3 jugs of Tidy Cats LightWeight cat litter with high hopes, but I've been let down. I usually vacuum the house once or twice a week, but this litter requires daily vacuuming. Within a few hours of vacuuming there's a trail of litter from the guest restroom through the house. Unfortunately, this includes litter on and in the bed that is on the entire other side of the house. There is also no odor control, and you will notice when the cats use the litter box. I threw in the towel and went back to a heavy litter, I'm completely disappointed in what seemed to be a great product. 
When dry, because it IS so light, the litter sticks to Kitty's feet and she tracks it ALL OVER the house. The KatMats just can't help this litter come out of her toes. I liked the light-weight convenience of the container and the odor control was decent. But this litter just is not the right one for me. I will definitely be returning to my normal litter: Tidy Cats Scoop 24/7 Multi-Cat.
I thought I had scored as I was able to pick it up with one hand - and one bag filled 2 litter boxes. I was quickly disappointed. It is essentially sawdust, and so dusty my allergies and asthma kicked in whenever I'd scoop. It does clump but the clumps break apart and a good clumping litter isn't hard to find. It tracks far and wide though, which is what I'd expect you get with light, tiny particles. I tried this out because I ran out of the usual litter, Precious Cat, and saw this at the store. I recommend staying away from this, especially if you and/or your cat(s) have allergies or asthma. (I buy Precious Cat from at a pet store or from Amazon with free delivery of the heavy 40lb bag, and it's dust free, clumps the best out of any cat litter and we've tried 'em all with cats in the house for over 30 years).
Great idea and nice try, but it just doesn't work. I would more than not purchase this again - I have actually discouraged others from buying it!
Have been purchasing the 20 lb Tidy Cats Scoop for several years. Generally, the product has performed well. Tidy Cats has recently (July 2013) reformulated their product. The new product is about one third heavier (denser) than previous formulation. This means the for the same 20 lbs (and the same price), the consumer now receives one third less volume. We have a large litter box which usually takes one full 20 lb container of litter to fill. Now, with the new formulation, we must use almost one-and-a-half containers to get the same fill volume. In fact, we compared the old 20 lb plastic container to the new one and the new one is noticeably smaller for the same 20 lb weight. Nowhere on the container does Tidy Cats inform it's customers of this change. Tidy Cats is obviously trying to save themselves money (a third less plastic for the container, a third less warehouse space, can now fit a third more on the delivery trucks, ... etc) at the consumer's expense. Sneaky and Dishonest Tidy Cats!!
After reading many reviews on this product, I decided to give it a try. I have three cats at home and was sick of the amount of litter I was throwing out each week. After purchasing my first starter kit on Amazon, I found a couple coupons to buy two more which made the litter box decently priced. The litter box itself is great. Very easy to clean. The concept of the pee filtering to the bottom makes cleaning this thing a dream and it really does reduce the amount of odor near the litter box. Now the downside... my cats hate it. I have been using the litter boxes for 6 months or so and have finally given up and switched back to regular litter. My cats (or at least one of the cats) hated it so much that they started to go on the carpet surrounding the litter box. I cleaned it for a while, hoping they would stop, but they didn't. I feel defeated, and truly wish this would have worked, but the cats just hate the thing. Be cautious when giving this a try, it can be a bit pricey if it doesn't work out. Good luck!
Odor control is great but instead of clumping it turned to cement and stuck to the litter box and scoop when Tried to scoop it. I would not buy it again.
The only good thing I can say about this product is that it is lightweight. The scent is awful and nowhere on the box did I find the word "scented." It is so overwhelming I feel as if I can hardly breathe. Also I find it to be dusty-smelling as well.
This litter is horrible at absorbing urine odor. I usually use fresh step and I do not have to change my litter but once a week, with this stuff it is everyday. I will never buy this again and if I can get my money back I would appreciate it. DO NOT BUY THIS PRODUCT.
I bought this the other day because I love the idea of the light weight. Today I came home from a less than 48 hour trip. I have one cat. Litter everywhere! First, he sinks in about 3 inches when he steps in the box. Second, it sticks to his paws, in-between his toes and it trailed everywhere he walked. I spent an hour cleaning kitty litter off the carpet, the bed, the couch and the kitchen and bathroom floors. I immediately went to the store to switch back to the brand I normally buy. I am not happy. FAIL!
This product was recommended by another cat owner.  I have followed the directions, but my cats are still afraid of the Breeze box.  I was not prepared for a long transition.  In my opinion, Tidy Cat does not really address the transition time for this product.  So I have just invested in this new system, but still paying for the old litter box indefinitely. I don't think introducing a new litter box should be this difficult.
I was excited to find this product. Being middle aged, I have to make my daughter haul the cat litter for fear I will throw out my back. So I bought this as soon as I found it. However it is CRAZY dusty. AWFUL, HORRIBLY dusty, the worst I've ever seen in a litter. I have to hold my breath when pouring it, and when scooping the box. CLOUDS of dust rise up and fill my small laundry room. This can NOT be good for my cats, and for that reason I will NOT buy it again. I just finished scooping and I can still feel the dust in my nose. I'm sad. If it wasn't for the excessive dust, it would be my new litter.
I bought this product because we had been having issues with odor, dust and the overall satisfaction of other litters. Sadly, this is not any better than the other litters we have tried. It is not even close to 99.9% dust free. If anything, it is more dusty than other litters we have used. My poor cat has been sneezing like crazy ever since we bought this product. It does not help with odors and we are a couple that cleans the litter box every day. I would never recommend this to any one, friend or foe.
Container weight is great but litter odor coverage is minimal & I have had to clean up tipped over litter box 3 times due to cats being used to boxes weighed down by litter. Price is higher than the other Tidy Cats products and the quality is lower, really doesn't make sense to me.
I gave it two stars, because it is definitely convenient, but I will never purchase it again personally because it's just not worth it to me.
Did you guys try this stuff with real cats?  It is all over my house.  It sticks to paws and flips right out of the liter box.  Also does not control odor like the other stuff.  I wasted my money buying this terrible product.  Just vacuumed for 4 hours.
This is the worse cat litter I have ever used. I love the Tidy cat glade ... wanted to try out this - I would much rather lug around 20lb boxes of cat litter. First off - it is so dusty, I thought OK maybe I was pouring too fast .. NO - dust just rolls out of the box when scooping. Apparently my poor cats could not stand to use it and started peeing on the litter mat .... I just can't begin to say how so ticked off I was when I found that nice mess!!!! I went to store bought 2 jugs of what I normally buy and cleaned out the litter boxes that I just redid with this crap last week! The remaining box will go right out of the house ... don't care about the waste of money!
I bought two of these systems since I have two cats and one of them simply refused to use the box, even though I tried slowly introducing it, it upset him greatly and he began inappropriately urinating on my furniture to avoid using it. I was disappointed but I thought whatever, to each his own and as the reviews show, plenty of cats will use this box. As for my other cat, he also ended up apparently eating some of the pellets and was blocked in his intestines by it. He was in so much pain, it was horrific to watch. After being rushed to the ER vet, having the mass surgically removed and costing us over $1,500 he is thankfully safely home. When I called the company to find out the ingredients to let the veterinarian know (they wanted to know the possibility of it breaking up on its own), I was told that it had a CONCRETE base and could be equated to eating GRAVEL/ROCKS and would not dissolve on its own with the reputation of blocking cats, dogs, and even toilets. Since it is concrete based, it perforated the sides of his intestines as it scraped down before getting lodged and the vet had to act extremely fast as his temp was spiking out of control. I got lucky because my cat survived, but for the sake of your pets please avoid this litterbox.
I bought this because it was on sale and thought it would be fine because it's supposed to be a great clumper and I've found that just isn't the case. I have one cat and a big covered litter box. Because of the cover, my kitty doesn't squat to pee and his urine usually hits the walls and runs down. He's a litter kicker, so I'm not taking the top off to make him squat; the mess isn't worth it. So, maybe because the clumping action isn't at its most effective because the pee isn't completely surrounded by litter, but I don't like it. It never dries completely and the "clumps" just fall apart when I try to scoop them. Has that ever happened to yo? Then you just have pee-sand that you only have two options: 1) Toss all the litter. ALL the litter. What a waste! 2) Sigh, stir the pee-sand around and sprinkle baking soda and fresh litter on top and hope the furry guy doesn't mind. These are HORRIBLE options! Fresh Step is a GREAT clumper and my preferred brand. I'm switching out all the litter tomorrow to the Fresh Step crystals, so I'll have a review for that in a month or so. Don't buy this!
I like the Tidy Cats brand and thought I try this variety for a change but this smells horrible right when opening the bucket - it smells pre-used. I have been scooping and scooping but the smell is simply offensive and today I just dumped it all out.
This Tidy Cats is the worst litter I have ever used. The urine goes to the bottom of the litter box & you must scrape it out of the litter box. Like it turns to clay. It also makes small balls of litter that seem like it falls apart. I would stay away from Tidy Cats with the Blue Lid.
I would never buy it again!!!! Gets all over gets in cats paws and all over the house.
This is not the kind of item I'd usually leave a review on, but I dislike this one enough that I feel compelled to do so. It controls odors well (2 cats, indoor/outdoor, one box), but it makes a MESS. The 'pebbles' of this are so small that the cats track it all over the place, and we usually don't have that problem. I'm having to sweep the floor near the box 1-2xs a day, when usually every 2 or 3 days will do. It's a terrible mess, and I don't find the odor control superior enough to put up with that kind of extra hassle. I won't buy this again. I tend to buy whatever non-clumping litter's on sale, and Cat's Pride is comparable without all the extra fuss and mess. Not recommended.
I have three cats, three litter boxes that are cleaned twice daily. I wanted something that wasn't heavy and smelled better than regular cat litter. I was pleased with the smell of Pure Nature when I opened the package. The first time the litter box closest to my bedroom was used it woke me from sleeping the smell was so bad. It simply does not absorb the smell like my old litter did. As well unfortunately this product is quite dusty. In essence the unused product has a wonderful scent but once used it's hard-put to control the odor. That coupled with the dust forces me to rate this product with one star.
I was excited to try the new lightweight litter, until I got to the cash register. I was going to buy a couple jugs but went home with only one. And I'm glad I did. I have two cats -- they're 17 and have always been very fussy about their litter, especially one of them. He wouldn't go in the box with the new litter. My other cat did use it, but as others have already commented, I found myself having to clean his paws every time. I liked how it clumped because my cats go quite a bit, so that was a plus. The bigger negative was the scent. Cats don't like new smells, and I also think whatever the fragrance ingredient was caused one of my cats to have a reaction in the form of a little infection (runny stools and diarrhea) that started shortly after introducing the new litter (nothing else in their routine had changed). So I've gone back to the regular clumping formula that has the little crystals (but not the new one with Glade scent) they've been using for years (still Tidy Cat brand). 
I hate the new kind with glade. The smell is not a good combination. It tracks all over and it does not clump well. Purchased 120 lbs as a stock up. I wish now I had gotten the regular tidy cat that clumps. That one works great. Cant wait till the ones with glade are gone.
This product has a lot to offer - so easy to carry and scoop.  The waste clumps nicely and the litter doesn't seem to get moist and hard to scoop over time like some of the other brands.  The only negative...and this is a big one for us...is the smell.  The perfume scent is so strong that I find it hard to breathe around it, so I can't imagine what it smells like to the poor cats.  I would love a non-scented version of this product, but with the current scent, I won't be buying more.
They must have changed the composition of the litter. Now, it no longer clumps and it is very dusty.  Also, it no longer absorbs the urine smell.  This has just occurred in the last couple of months.
I tried this litter to reduce the dust for my cat that has COPD. Initially it smells great, however the clumps fall apart and the litter begins to smell and must be changed out much sooner than the clay type. I switched back to the clay type as it was more expensive than the clay and has to be changed frequently.
I'm on the second container and will NOT buy this product again. The dust and tracking are the worst I've seen. The cats smell and feel dusty and my whole house is covered in dust.
This cat liter is the worst brand I ever purchased. I'm used to buying multiple cat brands because until a few months ago I had 2 cats. Now its just 1 and the oder was beyond gross. Tidy Cats didn't absorb any smell and doesn't clump well at all. I will never purchase this again
I bought Tidy Cats Light Weight Kitty Litter about two months ago, and I loved the fact that it was so lightweight. It worked really well as a kitty litter, but it had no odor control. The smell was awful. 
I thought this was good idea but the dust is all over my bathroom and this can't be healthy for people to breathe when cleaning the clumps. It also has a strong perfume smell. I'll never buy it again
We have 3 cats and have recently started buying this because its a better buy then our old brand.  One of our cats is having an allergic reaction to it. She is constantly licking, scratching and pulling her fur out leaving big sores on her body. Her sister won't use the litter boxes at all. Our male is not having any issues with it. While it smells good in the pail and does clump, it does not mask the litterbox smells even with scooping the boxes everyday. We still have some left but I'm trashing it and switching back to our old litter.
Smells worse than used kitty litter...and the litter is so small that I'm finding it everywhere around our house. I hope the Sam's Club where I normally buy my cat's litter returns to the 50lb bag of Tidy Cat non-clumping for multi-cats fast! But, for now I will shop at Blain's Fleet Farm for the 40lb bags until that happens!
I have always used Tidy Cat, so when they came out with the one with Glade, I was happy to try it. Yes, the smell is nice, but I have had major clumping issues with this product. Never have I had a clumping issue with Tidy Cat before, but there is something about this one with Glade that is different. Definitely won't buy it again. With four cats in the home, I can't take the chance.
I love the idea of a lighterweight litter as I am an urban dweller, but the smell of the litter is way too overpowering for my cat. She started using my bath mats and throw rugs for the first time in her 4 years and I was worried there was something wrong. I have an enclosed domed shape litter box and when I went to clean it I was overpowered by the smell. Once I stopped using the Tidy Cat, she started using the box again.
I was so excited about it because of my bad back and weight limitations.  I was not pleased at the price but it is a new product.  Not pleased that no coupons were found.  The dust from the litter is so overwhelming that I cough and choke and I have no respiratory problems.  The bathroom where the litter box is is the dustyiest room in the house.  Litter coverage of the waste is marginal and smell control is minimal.   Have I said disappointed?
I was so excited to see the new lightweight product that I bought it immediately. Ive used Tidy Cats for years, so it was terribly disappointing to use this inferior product. The smell and the dust were awful! I've gone back to Tidy Cats Scoop. I'd rather deal with the weight.
Purchased this because we live in a third floor walk up and carrying heavy boxes or bags became a serious chore. It stands up to the name as far as being lightweight, but the odor control is horrible. After our cat used this litter for a day or two the entire apartment smelled. We have since switched back to our old brand. If the odor control is improved I will definitely try this product again.
This litter is really terrible.  It does odor control alright, though with a weird citrus like smell that is really too sweet,  for my small studio apartment and one cat, but there is no clumping action at all.  It all crumbles on contact or the urine sinks to the bottom.  My cat also tracks it everywhere despite a high sided litter box and a mat.  The round shape of the litter pellets make it hard to sweep up.  I have tried to switch over to the 24/7 super clumping litter today.... lets see if it is any better.  But I will not be buying this Small Spaces product again.
My cat refused to try it for a month, and then finally started using it for feces but not for urine. She urinates outside of the box, so I have to wash the rug outside the litter box daily. The closed container of litter made the closet smell musty where I stored it. The litter is dusty, and it gets tracked out of the litter box worse than any other litter I have used. I wish it worked for me, but the cons outweigh the only pro, which is that it is lightweight.
Why did you change your formula for tidy cat? We thought it was just our litter box and after hearing 8-10 of our friends with cats complain about the smell which none of us had before we realized the formula had changed. Since we switched we are back to an automatic cleaner that is working great and no more smell.
Tidy Cats is my litter of choice, so I decided to bite the bullet and spend twice as much for Tidy Cats Light Weight as I do for regular Tidy Cats. I guess you don't always get what you pay for. Although it is supposed to be almost dust-free, it is the dustiest litter I've ever tried. I can't breathe in the room where this is located. The smell of it is even unpleasant. Today, I dumped it out, amidst a huge cloud of dust, and washed everything. I still have a lot of silt-like dust to clean off of everything else in the room. I am very disappointed in this product and regret spending $13 to try it.
I have used the Tidy Cats Scoop 24/7 litter for years. It was such a great product that I had one giant litter box for five cats! The key term there is WAS. A few months ago, I noticed that for some reason the urine wasn't clumping anymore. Everytime I tried to scoop, the urine disintegrated into "dust". This "dust" was left in the litter box since I couldn't scoop it out and it didn't take long for the urine odor to start spreading throughout the house. I even went out and bought 100 lbs of new Tidy Cats thinking that this was happening because the litter that was in there had just gotten too old. Well, boy was I wrong. I dumped 40 pounds of litter in a clean box and it was happening immediately. I don't understand why companies feel the need to mess with a good thing but they have so I have been forced to switch brands. I am not 100% sold on the Arm & Hammer that I switched to but at least my house doesn't smell like my cats are urinating everywhere! Sorry, Tidy Cats, but please go back to the drawing board and bring back the previous formula!! Me and my cats will be ever-so-grateful!!!
I love the lightness of the litter and my cat seems to as well as she covers up her mess 100% better. However the dust that she kicks up has increased 100% My floors, window sills, table, dresser,etc are covered with dust. I live in a studio in NYC and its difficult to breath after she uses her box, not because of the smell but due to the dust. I am so congested and now from all the dust and my cat sneezes more than usual.  I also notice my cats smells like the litter which means the dust is getting on her coat and the perfume is too strong. Please go back to the drawing board and fix the dust issue as the clumping and lightness are amazing. I will be going out this weekend and going back to my old litter. I wish I could get a refund for the two containers I have left of this little. 
I bought this from Sam's Club thinking, "It's Tidy Cats so it has to be just as good as the other Tidy Cats brands". The smell when I first opened the container was okay, but my (3) cats were the ones that put this to the test. They didn't prefer the smell of the Glade and started using outside the box. When they did use the litter that was inside the box, I had to scoop it right away. The mixture of the litter and the urine was extremely strong and wasn't a smell I cared to have lingering throughout my house. 
Bought the new Dual Power two weeks ago. Two cats use the liter box and it is cleaned every other day. It leaves a horrible smell throughout the house. It is not an ammonia smell but it still is bad. Will go back to using the other Tidy Cat litter.
I decided to try this product out, and unfortunately it didn't work out. I thought glade= better smelling litter? Not the case. Made my house smell like ammonia no matter how much I cleaned the litter box, and led my cats to pooping outside the litter box. I switched back to my old litter, no more odor, and no more picking up poop. I'd discontinue this product. Love tidy cats other than that. :)
I bought the lightweight litter- loved that it was easy to handle the container, it smelled nice and clumped as it was suppose to!  At that said- WHAT A MESS!  I have three cats and the lightweight litter stayed on their fur and they tracked it ALL over our home.  The litter boxes are in the basement and I had litter in the two floors above.  I returned to my prior product.  
I have used this cat litter for a year and a half and I have loved it.  However recently (last 3months?) i have noticed that the litter does not clump.  I can scoop out the feces, but the litter left in the box is urine saturated and it smells to high heaven.  I am very disappointed.  I guess I am going to have to try a different brand until Tidy Cats fixes this formula.
I was thrilled with the first jug of Light Weight Tidy Cat. No more stepping on hard little pieces of litter that get dragged from the litter box. Then I began to notice my poor cat smelled like a dusty old mop! After the second jug, the area where his litter box is kept was so dusty that I immediately went out and purchase the old standby Tidy Cat. I really wanted to like this product.
The only semi-good thing I can say about this litter is that it does actually clump well. So well that my cats have it caked in their paws from trying to do their business. It's perfumed, but doesn't deodorize the smells. It tracks EVERYWHERE! It has the consistency of Styrofoam pellets. Being lightweight would have been great, if the product worked as well as the heavy buckets of litter. I'll just continue to drudge those up the stairs because this stuff is gross. And did I mention more expensive?!
I decided to try this a few weeks ago. Bad decision. Spent today changing the litter boxes right back to regular scoop-able litter, as I walked in my front door yesterday and realized the smell was just intolerable. It was so bad, my husband, who has the worse sense of smell ever, even moved one of the litter boxes out of a room he was in. Not only was the smell like old school clay litter (perhaps even worse, and I'm really a clean freak and constantly scoop the boxes clean) but this stuff tracked all over the place. I do mean everywhere. Not just on the mats under the boxes, and around the boxes, but clear across the room, and even in rooms nowhere near the boxes, as if stuck to the cats.
I left an earlier review with a higher rating. Now after using it for a short time my expectations of this product fell totally flat. The litter stuck to my cat's paws which couldn't be washed off, the smell was overbearing and the stuff was tracked all over the house, pretty much every where my cat walked - including my desk! What a mess! Also, the stuff didn't clump where the cat urinated - it turned to cement. I couldn't wash the litter scoop without it getting harder. I would never purchase this again and again using plain old Tidy Cat. I am going to try the multiple cat deodorizer which I think I can control the strength of the scent myself.
I love the smell and that it is lightweight and a natural product. But my cat hates it! I did the slow introduction method and when I reached 50/50 mix I started finding wet spots in front of the litter box - she was peeing on the floor rather than use it. I tried 100% and she won't even go into the box anymore. When the accidents started I cleaned this product out of the second litter box in the basement and put back the old type clumping litter- that is the only box she is using now and no more accidents on my floor!
I came to check Amazon reviews because I bought this at Target today for only $7/bag and got 2 bags, excited that it was light weight, and hoping it would live up to the now defunct Feline Pine so many of us dearly loved before they ruined the formula but kept the old box. I wanted to see if anyone has had an anaphylactic reaction to it, because I barely sprinkled one cup of it on our current litter when I smelled how powerful it was, thinking I could mix it in to the current litter to break up the smell. Well, I could not breathe, and became incredibly dizzy after about 15 minutes. So I dumped the entire old litter (not Purina) with the 1 cup of Tidy Cats Nature Cat out in the trash outside, and removed both bags of litters from our house back to my car for return. When I came back to the house after about a 30 minute walk, the entire house STILL REEKS of this burning, turpentiney smell, which I agree from other posters is fake, as if Purina dumped an entire cup of essential oil into each bag of litter (definitely NOT a natural cedar scent, which is quite light). I am afraid I will be like the earlier poster who said the smell filled up his house so bad it even affected his dreams, and the other poster who said even after removing it, his house smelled of the litter for a week. I can believe it...it seems practically radioactive, the smell is so pulsating and unremitting, despite having every window of my house wide open. It feels like Vicks menthol vapo-rub has been inhaled deep into my lungs and is just tearing up the deep tissues of my lungs like the burning fires of hell, and I am going to have to retreat from this room where the litter box is to get to where I can stop this dizziness and discomfort. This is without a speck of litter left in the house, but for some reason the oil/scent is saturated in the house. The pain is like a heartburny fire deep in my lungs, that is how pungeant this is... Please, stay away from this litter; and Purina, I urge you to either put a strongly voiced warning about the potential for allergy/anaphylaxis or remove it from the market.... Cyanide and the Periodic Table of the Elements are "Pure Nature" too--but many parts of "Nature" are either toxic or lethal to humans and other life forms... So don't be deceived by the "Pure Nature" marketeering of the name...
I am disappointed in almost all aspects of this product. The scent is almost like a cheap grape candy, and seems more designed to mask odor than control it. The smell of the cat urine and feces is still noticeable, even though I scoop out the litter box at least four times a day for two kittens. The clumping is poor, and I'm left with a sticky mess that I have to clean off the scoop each time. The litter sticks to the cats' paws, and gets tracked all through the house. Generic litter worked better than this, and was cheaper.
I have a kitty who has developed asthma so I wanted to switch from the dusty clumping clay litter I've been using. Literally when I pour it out of the box a cloud of dust rises up and coats everything in the room. I liked it for other reasons, but because of my asthma kitty, it has to go. So I got this purina pure nature clumping litter at safeway. Unfortunately just now when I poured it out of the bag the smell was OVERWHELMING. It actually smells like turpentine. It smells as though Purina has added a cup of essential oil to every bag. I see from other reviews that people think this is a cedar odor. Well, I'm tellin' ya, if that's the case there won't be any moths for miles because this stuff STINKS, and the odor pervades the house. I have no idea why they would do this, but as I sit here typing this review my nostrils are being assaulted by this pervasive turpentiney odor from two rooms away. Cats have an intense sense of smell, much stronger than humans', why on earth would we force our cats to smell this incredibly strong odor when using the litterbox? So far one of my cats has walked into the room, smelled the litter and walked out. Then she walked in again, stepped in the box, and walked out. She clearly needs to use a litterbox and she clearly doesn't want to use this one. I purchased it at safeway, am hoping they will accept the empty bag back for a refund. I'm dumping this stuff in the morning and probably going to buy World's Best Cat Litter until I figure out what to do instead. Edited to add, now it's the morning after. I woke up several times in the night and each time I immediately noticed that my bedroom was filled with a very strong odor - and the box was not even close to the bedroom. I had even left all the windows open. I think it even affected my dreams last night! The cat did use it, and it clumps pee so-so. As for being good at odor control - hard to tell since it overpowers every other smell in the house! There is pine dust all over the bathroom floor, so this stuff tracks. I appreciate that I don't have to chip clumps of muddy cement off the sides of the box. Except for the overpowering odor, I actually like the stuff.
This stuff reeks. Both myself and my husband were overpowered by the flowery smell. It seems that one of my cats agrees with us. One of them defecated outside the box today (very unusual for our household). If we have another accident I'll have to dump the barely-used box and buy another brand. If you buy this, be sure to keep the receipt so you can try to get your money back!
Pros: Light weight, it really is and does seem to be just as effective. Cons: Smells awful, no where on the box did it state this was scented litter, the smell is incredibly strong, so strong it triggered an asthma attack. Avoid this if you have sensitivity to smells. I tried to give it a go regardless of the smell, hoping it would dissipate some, but it actually managed to get worse. Dusty, incredibly dusty. Also probably a key part of the asthma attack. Tracks everywhere, I've honestly never had a litter that tracked this much. I honestly didn't even use the full box I'd bought at Costco, I gave it a week and finally gave up and threw out what was left.
Do not buy this!!!!! It is the worst litter I have ever used in my life. I bought it for just an extra box and from the first time the cat went in it the smell was unbearable. I took the bag out and the box still smelled awful so I had to spray bleach in it and let it soak just to remove the smell.
I have been an exclusive Tidy Cat litter buyer for years. This new one is terrible. It sticks to my cat's paws (wet not dry); the tracking is awful and the worst part is the smell. It does not cover up cat box odors at all like the other Tidy Cat clumping litters. And even with the windows open I cannot get rid of the lingering smell. Hate it. Will go back to the old. Overpriced anyway.
I've had a single cat for a year and been pleasantly surprised that his litter box has never smelled like cat urine. I bought your product and have been using for less than a week and now all I smell in that area is cat urine. He's not going out of the box.  Light is great, but I'll take heavy and less stink any day!!!!!!! Honestly, considering the higher price, I wouldn't mind a refund either.
I was really excited about trying this new light-weight litter. I bought three containers! It clumps great, but the smell is just awful when it gets wet. They need to improve the odor because my whole basement smells like s pet shop. I probably won't buy it again
I was so excited to see this new litter. I dread carrying those heavy containers and when I saw how light it was, (despite the high cost), I thought it was definitely worth a try to save my back :) Wow, what a disappointment. As others have said, it smells so much stronger than the other Tidy Cats litter I've used (too strong), and it is so lightweight that it ends up ALL OVER my basement, after one of two times the cat used the box. Ugh. Not sure how they can claim "dust free", it is way more dusty and messy than regular litter. So instead of breaking my back carrying the litter, I'm breaking my back vacuuming every day!!
I have always used meijer brand scooping cat litter. Recently one of my cats started sneezing when using the litter box and was very quick to get in and get out. I was concerned that she was developing allergies or asthma to the cat litter dust. I tried this lightweight product because advertises 99.9% dust free. It is MORE dusty than the cheap meijer stuff. I found it difficult for myself to even scoop the box as I could feel myself breathing all the dust. Dust makes a mess in the utility room and more importantly, cats did not like it. Switched to Nature's Miracle Natural Care Odor Control Clumping Cat Litter, it is made of wheat and has very little dust, no artificial smells (which is good, cats are sensitive to fragrances) and I am very happy with that product. I filed for a refund for the Tidy Cat lightweight product.
I purchased this with big hopes for a simpler solution to kitty litter. Unfortunately, the product's did not live up to my hopes. First, it was unable to control poop-related odors. I work all day and would have to come home to a smelly house. The system did very little in the way of odor control. Another issues was with my kitten's non-solid poop, which would soil tons of pellets at once and force me to go through rather expensive bags of pellets very quickly. In the end, I was forced to return to normal litter. I have a new-found appreciation for clumping litter. Thank you, Tidy Cats. PROS Didn't track through the house Pee went right through Kitties didn't seem to mind CONS Lack of odor control Expensive pellets Can't handle kitty diarrhea
Use a coupon to try this and would not recommend due to the overwhelming pine/corn smell. Guess it worked okay but when the smell is nauseating I won't use it again. I am surprised the cats used it. It also seems to track worse than clumping litter.
If this litter was affordable, I would easily give it five stars.  It's light, always smells fresh, and clumps are much easier to handle.  If they could get the price down, I'm convinced it would soon make all other cat litters obsolete.  Unfortunately, I can't justify spending 50% more, no matter how good it is.  When they get reasonable, I will definitely buy it.
Tidy Cat had sent me a sample bottle of this litter (regular size) and I thought my only complaint was how the cats paws sank down to the bottom of the pan with this stuff. A month or so down the line we decided to try another bottle of it. I can smell it's fragrance all throughout the house and I'm hating it. I think I'm going to put some vinegar in a spray bottle and see if I can neutralize the scent a little. I prefer this litter with the Litter Genie because the regular stuff is so dense and heavy, but I just can't tolerate the smell. • They say the 8.5lb = a regular 20lb but they charge far more for the lightweight. • I didn't find the dust to be a problem. • It seems to last a good while. I want $15 to last closer to a month, not just two weeks (8.5lb) • I guess I'll be sticking with Tidy Cat Scoop (blue label) (20lb 2/$16 Petco) even though it weighs a ton
WILL NEVER BUY AGAIN. WENT BACK TO ARM AND HAMMER.
I bought this because it weighed less than the regular kitty litter. Even with scooping the waste every day within 2 days the smell in the basement is overpowering. Cat use it, but no odor control what so ever. Not buying it again.
I bought this litter because I had a $3 coupon and it seemed like a great alternative to clay litter. It definitely smells amazing! However, it really doesn't clump very well at all. It crumbles as soon as I touch it with the scoop. It worked well when combined with my regular petco clay litter. The clay litter clumped and the pure nature acted as a very nice deodorizer. However, it's a little too expensive to do that all the time.
when it arrived the pail it comes in was broken and it was falling out into the box. i figured i would just use it any ways, I live in a very small house and have never had any problems with smell of our cat, right after i stared using this the smell got so bad i had to buy new litter again. I would not buy it again or recommend any one else does. I have never had cat litter so bad so bad in my life and i have had cats since i can remember.
We only have two cats and used this in one litter box after my mother in law bought it for us, claiming our other litter was too dusty. Now, I am a cheap person and never buy brand name or expensive litter, and to me this one is expensive. I normally use Arm and Hammer Double Duty which is a hit or miss on amount of dust. Well, this Tidy Cats Multi is the WORST litter I've ever used. Sure, there is little dust, but it only clumps for the first week you use it. Into the second week we had it in the box the cats wouldn't touch it because it didn't clump the pee, it just made a mushy pile. This made scooping impossible, and the urine smell was overwhelming. On top of that, the fragrance is very strong in the litter. Also, my cats track this stuff everywhere, and smell like the litter for hours after using it. MIL also bought me the blue kind but I will not be using it and am going back to Arm and Hammer or maybe another kind. My husband was so irritated at how much I complained about the litter he dumped the box himself! Do not buy.
I usually use the Tidy Cat blue but the store was out so my husband bought Tidy Cat with Glade. The smell of the Glade is so overpowering, it's noxious. My kitty litter boxes are in the garage but I can smell this all over my house. Now that the cats have used the boxes are few times, the odor has changed to a sickening perfume and pee combination that is just intolerable. What's worse is this litter has a lot of dust in it, I assume from the Glade, and my cats are now covered with dust and reek of perfume. All of my cats are scratching like crazy now and one has started having respiratory issues since we put this out there. As soon as I can get to the store and get new litter, I will be changing back to Tidy Cat blue and I will never buy Tidy Cat with Glade again and would never recommend it. This seems to me to be yet another product that wasn't thoroughly test marketed before being sold to the public. Very bad idea.
I do not own one of these boxes and after cleaning them for clients (I'm a pet sitter) I would never buy one. The pads are expensive and stinky. Supposedly you don't have to change the pads daily but if they sit for more than a day they stink. I can smell them as soon as I enter a clients house.
I have multiple cats and need good odor control. At first I thought this product was great as it seemed to have superior odor control, clumped tightly, was easy to work with, and the light weight was wonderful so I thought it was worth the extra cost. I buy a lot of kitty litter! Unfortunately, the powerful fragrance and extreme amount of dust got to me and my cats rather quickly. The description says 99% dust free. Don't you believe it. I bought it more than once so I gave it a fair try. However....... My whole house filled with the litter's fragrance after about 2 weeks which made it smell like a cat box (yuck!), even after changing the boxes to fresh litter. The kitties also smelled like it all over (yuck!) and their fur was so full of dust it felt dirty (double yuck!!). I couldn't imagine it was healthy for them to be breathing and swallowing all that dust. When the kitties started going beside the box to show their displeasure that was the end of that. Sorry, but I won't be buying it again until they get rid of the fragrance and the dust. Other cat people friends have expressed the same to me as well. (NOTE: Amazon posted this review on a different Tidy Cats Natural Litter but it didn't belong there. I haven't tried that product.)
Where should I start? I have worked for a professional pet care service for several years, and have had the unfortunate experience of tangling with this litterbox many times. Since I have so much experience with so many types of litterboxes, I actually felt compelled to write about this one, because it was so unsuitable. First off, the large, hard edged pellets are the exact opposite of the sandy substrate most cats naturally prefer. Many cats will dislike them and will not dig properly, cover their waste or have a tendency towards "accidents" outside the box. Yes, they track less, due to their size; but they will track. Secondly, these pellets have no absorbtion. So when the cat does eliminate in them, they will be coated in urine or stick to feces. It is not nice to have that portion tracked out. It will also leave the cat's paws dirty as they work in them. The box itself will have urine that pools in the bottom; not all will drain properly; and I have found it is not uncommon for the urine to overflow or miss the pad underneath, resulting in a godawful mess with the pan. Also, since feces are not coated by the pellets as they would be by sand-like litters, the scoop and the box will get fecal smears on them. Both of them will need to be cleaned frequently. Finally, this litterbox leaves you wedded to an expensive system of pads and litter pellets. Several packets of the pellets will be needed to fill the litterbox with an adequate bed. Both pads and pellets will need to be changed frequently. This system is also not user friendly; if you should ever get another cat or more cats, it will be harder to transition them. It has one high point, which is odor control. The pad does a very good job at masking the smell of urine; the pellets less so at masking the smell of feces, because the feces are not adequately buried or coated. All in all, with all the litters and litterboxes I have seen and tried, this one is the worst of them all.
I have two new kittens and this has been great - I traded the old litter box in and there is no mess, it is visually appealing and because of the no clumping factor they no longer use it as a sandbox to play in. The smell is not great but they are on medication right now so I think that has a lot to do with it. I feed science diet for indoor cats dry food only. The scooper makes it easy to just sift through, lift up and drop into the toilet to flush. The pads are super absorbent with no smell. I just sprinkled a little of the old litter over and they transitioned immediately. I am using more of the pellets for right now because they want to bury. But overall there is absolutely NO mess at all. I keep in the bathroom in a corner and the high sides minimize the look and feel of a kitty box. Update: Okay so after a few days of this going great the boy has started trying to dig his feces in so hard it spreads throughout the box damaging all the pellets that it is filled with. After talking to other people I realized maybe the pellets are too hard as they are only 2.5 mths old. I love the look and size of the box, so how I have remedied it until they get older is I bought liners with elastic size L and Sweat Scoop litter which is wheat based and exceptionally lightweight. I took the pee pad out, unclipped the hood, folded the liner over the grate clipped the hood back on and filled with Sweat Scoop. It works fantastically. I will revert to the clay pellets and pads when they are bigger. So further update! I had a friend come over and he went into my bathroom and came out and said to me you have got to do something about the smell! Obviously I had become used to it and didn't notice it that much I guess? So I investigated and eventually when I took the liners etc off the breeze box and smelled it - I discovered that the plastic grating that allows the urine to flow through to the pad reeked of cat urine! I never thought about it before but the urine runs through and drips through the grates so was covered in it. Washing didn't help even with chemicals. So I had to throw the whole thing away! I started from scratch with an arm and hammer hooded bin, bought the arm and hammer naturals (corn based) and now change it out every 3rd day (completely). I am using about 3 bags of litter a month and one pack of liners. It's the only way in the end.
I wanted to love this litter. I really did. I wanted to love it so much that I bought a second bag to really give it a good try. It's terrible. I have only one cat. My cat litter "issues" aren't extensive. I gave this a go for the better part of a month but I can't recommend this. The litter may clump when the cat is in the box but when I go to scoop it up, it falls apart all over the box. Sifting it out is a nightmare. The smell is amazing in a really bad way. It's great in a totally clean box but the minute any urination happens, it's a stench fest. I will not be buying any more. Sadly. Update: The last of the product is now gone and I'm so happy. My one cat managed to produce such an overwhelming urine odor even with daily litter cleanings/addings that her "area" was just a no-go zone. Ten minutes after dumping all this litter and cleaning the box with an addition of "normal" litter - all is well.
Avoid unless you like stinky litter. I just bought this because the place I get my litter from didn't have the usual stuff and I thought I'd try this one. I am so displeased with it I'm writing a review anywhere i can. It's true to its advertisement that it is lightweight, but it's not remotely as effective as Tidy Cats' other litter versions. The most annoying thing I find about poor cat litter is the amount of time it takes for it to stop newly deposited scat to stop smelling. This brand is the worst. It's takes a long time for it to stop stinking. If I had a choice between using one of those all crystal type of litters (which in my experience takes awhile to stop stinking) or using this lightweight stuff, I'd choose the all crystal type. Tidy Cats' other litters perform better than this one. I also noticed it to be very dusty when pouring out of the container. My recommendation on cat litter is using Tidy Cats Small Spaces version of litter. It stops the odor pretty quickly, doesn't track too much, and definitely isn't as dusty as the lightweight version. Cat Attract is also another good brand that works very well but it comes at a premium. Ugh! it's still stinking even after writing reviews at two places! This litter is going to be relegated to other uses: oil spill cleanup and sidewalk ice traction control. It's not good for it's intended purpose.
I have multiple cats and need good odor control. At first I thought this product was great as it has superior odor control, clumps tightly, is easy to work with, and the light weight is wonderful so I thought it was worth the extra cost. Unfortunately, the powerful fragrance and extreme amount of dust got to me and my cats rather quickly. My whole house smelled like the fragrance after about 2 weeks which made it seem like my house smelled like a cat box (yuck!) The kitties also smelled like it all over and their fur was so full of dust it felt dirty. I couldn't imagine it was healthy for them to be breathing and swallowing all that dust. When the kitties started going outside the box to show displeasure that was the end of that. Sorry, but I won't be buying it again until they get rid of the fragrance and the dust. Other cat people friends have expressed the same to me as well.
Is it lightweight? Yes. I was surprised that it was as light as advertised. Does it work? NO! It doesn't clump nearly as well as some of Tidy Cat's other products. And it does not cover the urine smell at all. When I go to clean the box, I'm overwhelmed by the ammonia smell. Had the jug I bought not been so expensive I would just throw it out and buy all new litter. I will never buy this again and I would strongly recommend that if you don't want to be able to smell your litter box from all over your house, don't buy this product.
Liter purchased this month is not clumping. Cleaning liter box daily; however, this has turned into a major chore.
I have used this litter for several years, it always clumped before...but now it falls apart....why? Has the formula changed?
Tracks everywhere and dusty! No odor control! I'd rather buy the reg scoop cat litter, I knew light weight was too good to be true. Disappointed!
I have used this litter for several months. I like the fact that it is cedar & corn, light weight, and flushable. What I don't like about it is the slimy binder that almost clumps this litter. It is soooooo Slimy that I've fallen several times as it is so slick on my tile floor it's like ice skating for the first time. A REAL HAZARD. Since many litter boxes are kept in the bathroom this may be happening to others. Any moisture that it touches causes this. It is nearly impossible to get it cleaned from a hard surface. My cat fell trying to get out of the tub last night as the sides were so slick with this stuff. Sure wish this product had the same clumping action as Worlds Best Litter and NONE of the slimy stuff creating a hazardous situation for people and cats that use this product!.
Okay, I rarely write reviews but I thought I would at least explain my experience with these cat boxes. We have three cats of which all had been used to regular old clay litter. I loved the idea of these boxes despite the fact I would have to use the special litter and pads but accepted that idea. No big deal. We bought two of the units for our three cats (this is less than Breeze suggested but I only ever had two regular litter boxes and I was going to clean more regularly). Anyhow, after a few days the cats seemed to get it and everything appeared fine. Every day I cleaned the litter and was amazed that so little litter was wasted in pee which apparently made up a majority of the "clumps" in the old litter. Loved these things and thought they were better than sliced bread. At about the same time we started the new litter system one of our cats died and we got a new kitten. Our cats started peeing on our furniture - and I mean a lot. Of course, we assumed that the peeing was as a result of the new cat. Furniture was destroyed and I really began to hate our cats. But, the litter boxes continued to be used and I just kept moving along assuming the cats were having interpersonal problems. Move forward about three months, literally hundreds of dollars spent on cleaners to try and remove urine smells from our house, new pads for furniture, and furniture that still smells of urine no matter what we do. I had always heard that cats can get upset with litter changes but since the boxes were being used I basically wrote this off. However, I finally decided to buy three good old fashion cheap litter boxes and some cheap litter. I placed the litter boxes in the same room as the Breeze system. In one night, the cats all went straight back to the regular litter. The Breeze was not even used again. Even if the old litter boxes became full (I thought I would keep the Breeze as a "backup") they would not touch it. So, I pulled out the Breeze system and just used the regular boxes. It has now been two months since my roughly six months trial of the Breeze litter system. That was six months of pure hell with hating my cats and coming home nearly daily to the lovely smell of cat urine all over our house. Since we returned to regular clumping litter there have been no more accidents. Cats, including the latest entry who came into the house when we started the new litter, are all happily using their good old fashioned cat litter. I think that some cats just really like the feel of covering up their scat. The Breeze litter really does not cover up the remnants. At least for our cats, that appears to have been a no go. I only wished I could have learned this earlier....
Unfortunately I bought two.  I have to clean out the whole thing every day and thats not easy.  Actually, its back braking.  I used it up 3 or 4 times as fast at others so it was a very poor buy.  Ended up costing more then the higher priced competion
After reading the reviews I am surprised at the number of people that like this litter and wondering when and if you purchase it yourself if you will be as pleased. As an owner of multiple cats I find the litter extremely dusty and it tracks worse than any litter I have ever used. I tried mixing it with my other Tidy Cat litter but it only rises to the top and tracking is no better. I have decided to throw away my very overpriced cat litter.
I decided to try the Light Weight litter because of the "lighter" weight---I am going back to the traditional Tidy Cats. This litter is too dusty and doesn't neutralize the odor and I scoop both my litter boxes constantly. THe only pro to this litter is it scoops nicely
I wanted to like this product soo much because I didn't want to have to constantly sweep up kitty litter, but this product is TERRIBLE!!! The box is nicely made and I didn't have a problem with the pads and/or a urine smell. But, doesn't the smell of s*** bother anyone??? I swapped out the pellets (which are $8/bag and you need at least 1 bag per change) but the smell is just awful. I was frustrated at having spent so much money on this (and who is going to return a used litter box...) so I emailed the company and they graciously replaced the product and I am a fan of their regular litter now. But, their response was that their is a mechanism that is supposed to deodorize the #2 over time, but I definitely don't have that amount of time, however long that is... I cleaned the box at least 2x/day and sometimes immediately after it was used and it was just gross. Forget this nastiness, it doesn't work.
The idea is great but I found like the other reviewer that this was much dustier than my favorite, TC Power Blend. It was also really sticky when scooping and I had to wash the litter scoop almost daily. When I washed the box out there were lots of little white particles so I'm wondering if the 50% price increase and light weight are due to zeolite in the mix. A good idea for ammonia adsorption but overall LightWeight needs a bit of reformulating.
I bought this a few weeks ago just to give it a try other than it being light weight I've been very disappointed as his litter begins to smell if I don't clean it literally every other day. The smell permeates throughout my house. I've never had this issue with his other litters. I won't be buying again :-(
Tidy Cats is OK.  We cannot tell a difference among all the different types of scoopable.  They're all the same.  I'd recommend Tidy Cats only for the price.  
I already had to complain to the company about the instant action and now I am not liking the 24/7 either. I'm going to be switching brands if the next one I purchase is just as bad. Barely even clumps, and I am not impressed. My cat has been using this type since she was a kitten, so I don't want to change it, but I can't keep buying it at that price and having it perform so badly. 
I just sent an email to Purina about this litter. I am using it as the bulk of my review. "I recently got 2 large bags of Tidy Cat Pure Nature cat litter. I chose it because of the scent, the lightness, the dust-free statement, and because it is natural. Well, I got the scent, the lightness, and the natural. What I didn't get was the dust-free. I just scooped out my litter box, went to wash my hands and discovered that washing my hands just wasn't enough, I needed a full shower! I was literally covered in dust: my hands, arms, face, hair, and front of my blouse were white with dust. I have used litter boxes for my cats for more than 20 years and have NEVER had a cat litter as dusty as this litter. I would like to know how you determined that this litter was 99.9% dust-free? As I said at the beginning I bought 2 large bags, I will be returning the 2nd bag to the store as soon as possible, just wish I could get my money back on the first bag. I will NOT be recommending this litter to anyone, if I say anything to anyone about this litter it will be "Do NOT buy this litter, it's terrible for both you and your cat(s)!" Considering the long-standing reputation of Purina products I am totally surprised, and dismayed, that you would even offer this litter to the public." What I didn't include in my letter was the fact that, while this litter tries to clump, it just doesn't clump strong enough to scoop it out intact, much much worse than other clumping litters I've tried over many years. The scent is strong, enough to make my eyes water but I can deal with that since my son isn't complaining about the smell of the last litter we used. Even though I really liked the weight, a scent I can live with, and the natural factor, the problem with the dust is a such a huge issue, I can only give it one star. UPDATE: I did receive a response to my letter to Purina. The company expressed concern about the dust issue, asked me to send them some of the litter I had (they paid for packaging and postage) and sent 3 coupons towards future purchases on any of their litter products. I did as requested and sent the sample of the litter. As of this date, August 22, I have heard nothing more from them nor do I expect to.
I used to use Tidy Cat years ago, I don't remember why I switched but I started using Fresh Step. Fresh Step does work well, blocks the odors nicely...but it's more expensive. I saw Tidy Cat 24/7 odor control on sale and thought "why not?". I'll tell you why not....ughhh, the urine smell! I have the cat box downstairs in the bathroom and even from there the aroma wafts upstairs. I have never had that occur with Fresh Step. When the Tidy Cat runs out, I won't be buying it again. And next time it goes on sale I will try to remember WHY I don't use it. Just for the record...when they say 24/7...I think they mean it works for 24 MINUTES per day! Like right after you change the box or add more.... How they think 24 hour odor control from this junk is possible I don't have a clue.
This litter is fine, I've used it. I'm writing this to make sure any potential buyer double-checks the price first...this particular item only totals 21 pounds of litter for almost $40. That's $2 per pound. Normal prices are more like $0.50 per pound. Even on Amazon, per this listing: Purina Instant Action Litter 10 pounds That's four 10 pound bags for about $20, compared to three 7 pound cans for $40. Unless the cans are made of solid gold, something is off here. Somebody is bad at math, and if you order this item then unfortunately it winds up being...you. At $20 for 40 pounds, that's actually a bit lower than my local supermarket, so don't dismiss Amazon's prices outright. Just this listing.
I wish I had seen the reviews before I had my husband buy this product. I have litter boxes with lids and my cats would not go inside the box. I will not buy again. Total waste of money.
I am online searching for a better clumping product. Tidy Cat was the brand I used for over 26 years. Lately, I have not been happy with the clumping of the urnine and feel there has been a change in the product. It has been so poor that I checked to see that I did not accidently pick up clay by mistake.
I like the aspect that this is lightweight but that is it. If the dust could be gone and the tracking factor from litter box to wherever the cats go, i.e. my desk for one, it would be a fantastic product. Good idea, poor outcome. Fix the dust and tracking problem (poor cats have to walk with that between their toes - ouch!), and it would be a great product. I won't be buying it anymore. Back to Fresh Step or Arm & Hammer.
Terrible dust. Awful. I bought 2 bottles and had to throw them out. The dust is too much. I have asthma and emphysema and this is very bad for my lungs. Dust everywhere.
lightweight is great but way to dusty...made my cat sneeze everytime he got in the litter...way to expensive.......was hoping to use it cause I have to climb up 4 sets of stairs to my apartment.! Wish I could get a rebate for the money I wasted (fixed income leaves no room for waste)
I was going to get some of this litter until I saw the reviews. The dust seems like it is a real problem and then the litter between the cat feet. I was excited about this when I saw the ad I thought my cat would love it. But I am a senior and I can't buy something that might not work. My cat would not like the dust or the litter between her toes.The weight would be great a lot easier to carry wish it would work. patty
I will never purchase this product again and will warn others to steer clear as well.  Not only is it dusty, gasp, choke, I find un-washable. cat prints everywhere.
I bought this product thinking it would be convenient but boy was I wrong,  If I was renovating my whole house I wouldn't have had as much dust as this made.  It is everywhere.  I threw it away and went back to the regular.  the box says 99.9 percent dust free, it should say 99.9 percent dust.  Do not buy it you will be dusting all the time.
I have used this product for YEARS and suddenly it's become AWFUL.  No longer clumps, the clumps fall apart when you try to scoop, it's been such a disappointment after many years.  We have now tried the lightweight one, and it's GREAT at clumping, but the dust is enough to make me want to wear a mask and I have to dust after I scoop because of the dust that ends up everywhere.  I no longer recommend this product after YEARS of using.
99.9% dust free??? That is a joke right there. When I'm pouring the litter in the box, I have to close my eyes and hold my breath because of the huge plume of fine dust. It does not clump very well and does NOTHING for odor! I love the original "heavy" Tidy Cats 24/7 cat litter and will be purchasing that from now on (if it even still comes in the original form).
I have 5 cats & was so excited to try this product. Now that I have I have never been so disappointed!! IT IS NOT DUST FREE!!! It has absolutely saturated by home and office with dust! I am having a horrible time trying to clean the dust up! It's even been sucked up into the internal parts my computers, printers, DVD Players, TV's, etc. DO NOT BUY THIS PRODUCT!!
I was so excited to try a lightweight litter.  I have always used Tidy Cats 24/7 Performance.  I have used the lightweight litter for a month and it is a joke.  It tracks everywhere and is no where near 99.9% Dust Free.  It is by far the dustiest litter I have ever tried.  I am going back to the 24/7 Performance immediately.  I wish I could get my money back.
The cats walk away from the littler box and take the litter along. It is so light that it sticks to their feet and goes EVERYWHERE! EVERYWHERE! I'm throwing out the 1/2 of the box that is left. It is NOT 99.0% dust free either. It is worst than any other littler I've tried. I can't keep up with the dust.
I was excited to try the new lightweight litter but the dust was so bad I was choking on it.  Everything in the room is covered in dust!!!  I will never buy this product again. 
will never buy again.  zero odor control and too much dust. 
I had originally given this litter a good rating; however after using this now for about 3 months I have completely changed my mind. The dust is AWFUL!!! It gets everywhere and is next to impossible to clean up. I am not exaggerating--the dust is everywhere!!! It is probably unhealthy as well to be breathing in for me and my cats. I am switching litters, trying a new one all together and not going back to the previous Tidy Cats I was using before this.
Purchased thinking it would be a lifesaver for me and my husband, however all it does is put white dust all over my hardwood floors and furniture or wherever our two cats might walk. I will never purchase this again
We use tidy cat clumping,we have tryed this new product with our cat's for years. I worked for Purina for years so I know they make good products. So with that said this light weight litter good idea to make it lighter for easy handling. But the fact is it doesnot work well ,have to change out twice as much as the regular tidy cat. My wife has noticed that it leaves a dust when the cat is trying to cover it which travels. Also gets in their paws as they come out, an yes we do have mat's down around box. I like tidy cat has good track record. But I think this product needs to go back to the think box.
I couldn't wait to try it. I was really sold on the lightweight idea. Tidy Cat, you have more work to do... Pros: weight & clumping are great Cons: tracks all over the house, strong perfume odor in the box, in the room where the box is and on my cats feet and releases a ton of dust when I scoop
I spend over $40 on 3 containers of this litter.  Yes, it's lightweight is awesome but it is SO DUSTY, I have to hold my breath while scooping and my cats are covered in a white dust.  Won't be purchasing this again.
I only use Tidy Cats litter, thought I'd try Light Weight Litter and I will never purchase it again. It's so dusty I have to blow out at the dust while scooping just to breathe in less litter dust. My husband asks when this Light Weight version will be gone, he turns on the bathroom fan and shuts the door. I hope this review helps someone avoid the dust mess this has caused in my house.
I bought it for my 5 cats and got very disappointed with the product: dust from it is all over my place, including the kitties' coats. I got allergic to it because of this horrible dust it produces. Will never buy it again!!
I was so glad to see a new version of the heavy cat litter.  Since I do all the shopping, it was always a struggle when it came to buying cat litter so I thought I'd try the new, lightweight litter. The problem is that it is soooo light that it sticks to everything and now with the colder months being here and the static in the air, it is 'litterally' EVERYWHERE! And I mean EVERYWHERE!   It sticks to the cats after they use the litter box and they track it ALL OVER THE HOUSE!  You now know if your kitty is getting on the counters at night when you are sleeping because where your cat has been, there is the litter.  It actually 'jumps' on my legs when I walk by the litter box because of the static cling. It is also very dusty. The negative aspects of this litter, far 'out-weighs' the positive.  Looks like the struggle will have to continue next time I buy kitty litter.
As a multi cat owner and a single person, I tried the new light weight TidyCat.  It is very light weight; however, it is the dustiest, messiest litter I've ever used.  It tracks everywhere, even on the cats, and it's just a disaster! I'm going back to the Cat's Pride light weight littler or the TidyCat Small Spaces but I'm VERY dissatisfied with this product. I hope this helps anyone trying to make a decision as to whether they should purchase this product.  Go with something else!
I have used the light weight Tidy Cat litter and it is very much lighter to use, has the clumping feature of the heavy weight litter. However the dust from this light weight is very obvious. When cleaning the cat box the dust goes well beyond the litter box. And - what will the affect of the dust have upon our cats when they breath it in?? We will need to clean our floors more often due to the dust. Yes cats will track litter beyond the box but our cats seem to track more of this litter than the heavier weight litter. I am seriously considering either going back to the "regular" Tidy Cat litter or another brand. I applaud Purina for the attempt to improve Tidy Cat litter but recommend they go back to the testing tables.
I always buy Tidy Cats. I tried the new lightweight and it does not cover the smell as well as the original ones do.
I bought it was so excited to use it started out ok , I have 2 cats 2 litter boxes I scoop every day. after 3 days I started to notice dust and not just a little but alot.i dumped it out washed down everything around, you could see the dust I could tast it, i was not happy I wanted to use this so much. went back to my old tidy cat litter. and it is more dust free than the 99.9% dust free light weight. I have asthma so I know what I am talking about, I need a dust free house. I still like my tidy cat.
I run 7 boxes and 200+ pounds of litter and am willing to pay for something that is dust free, does not track and would be lighter.  This is by far the dustiest litter I've ever used and I've used many brands.  Not only did my cast sneeze I did when I scooped.  Very disappointing.  
I think I get "white lung" every time I scoop, which is a shame because I LOVE the lighter weight, and it functions well. The dust all over the house, however, is going to have to make me switch back. Awesome concept; poor execution
We've had multiple cats with up to 10 litter boxes in our home for 20 years. We're down to 'only' 4 litter boxes and were looking forward to trying the new Tidy Cats Lightweight litter. I was appalled by the amount of dust produced by this litter. When scooping, I have to lean back to avoid inhaling the dust - and I know how to scoop gently with minimal action with the scooper! I like the light weight and ease of scooping - the shovel glides through the litter! But the amount of dust produced is a non-starter for us. Sorry!
I only buy tidy cats because we love how tight it clumps but I hate this stuff. The only thing good about this product is that it is light. It doesn't clump at all. I will be going back to the heavier type. I hope that this product can be made better and still be light.
I bought this little with hopes that it would provide the same odor protection and be as dust free and the original tidy cats litter... I guess I was just hoping for too much.  The lightweight little offers little to no odor protection, and the dust is absolutely disgusting!  I will be going back to the store and buying the original after only a couple of days use of the lightweight.  What a waste of money.
Was so excited to see the lightweight litter come on the market. The weight is spectacular, but unfortunately so is the dust! Can't believe the level of dust covering everything in the cat's room. And as others have said, this litter sticks to the cats' paws and gets tracked around the house much more than the regular or other brands. First and last time for me. At the next change will go back to Cat's Pride reduced weight - it's only a 25% weight reduction but not nearly as dusty as the Tidy Cats and doesn't seem to get tracked around like this stuff. Very disappointing! Didn't they do R&D on the dusst issue? They had to know people would not be happy with the mess this creates.
Bought Lightweight recently. Too much dust & too little odor control. Will not buy it again.
99.9% dust free claims, what nonsense!!!!! Just as dusty as any other. I do like the lightweight, but I think of it as kind of a novelty right now for me since this is my first try. I also think, although no facts to back it up yet, that this is not lasting as long as the regular clumping  litter as claimed. ie..38lb regular clump tidy cat lasts over 3 weeks, where as the similar claim size is right at 3 weeks. 4 cats and I clean it 2 times a day. Will not buy this again, the main reason is the dust free claims that are false.
This litter is so light that it sticks to my cats feet and he leaves it all over the house. I don't think it works as well as the regular Tidy Cats that I had been using. The worst part about Lightweight is the dust. When I clean the litterbox, the amount of dust generated is much greater than with regular Tidy Cats, and I don't think it works as well either. I will not buy this product again!!!
Great way to shop. The large pails of kitty litter is much too heavy to get off the shelves,difficult to find a man to help, then transport to car the lift and carry up 6 steps. When I order on line..good price, Fed Ex or UPS delivers..carries up the stairs, their all so sweet and professional, I bake them cookies and give them a tip and its all SO WORTH IT. This needless to say makes shopping so much easier.. I love shopping this way.....thanks Bufert1, by the way..the Tidy Cat clumping is the best...I have three cats and this works great!!!!!!!
One of my six cats has stopped using the litter box and she lets me know about it,and the clumps break apart and it takes more time to clean.
I bought this one month ago and have hated it ever since. It stinks like crazy even though I do every thing correctly with cleaning. I cannot get a refund because I don't have the box. This was a horrible buy and I'd rather have my 30 dollars back. 
This product is terrible! I'm not usually someone who reviews products, but this was such a waste of money that I had to. This litter not only has no oder control, but since it's so lightweight, the cats track it everywhere! Takes me twice as long to clean my floors! I'm definitely going back to the heavy litter! Good idea, terrible product. Nice try!
I have one cat and it cannot clump like it claims to. The odor control is terrible. Sorry I bought it.
I bought the product two weeks ago to try. So easy to take home and light. However after two days I started finding litter everywhere! I changed everything out and it happened again. My cats paws had the litter stuck in them and tracked it everywhere. I spent several days cleaning my furniture and carpets. Went back to my regular tody cats litter and no more mess. The light weight benefit did not help the work i had to do cleaning.
The fancy feast box plus the two (2) bags of kitten chow were delivered to my home, but the remaining order seven (7) 40# kitty litters and the four (4) 16# cat chows were left at my post office, where I had to load up and haul home. Then up to the house. Not good!!! I'm 70 years young and was looking for help to get all of this order to my porch===it didn't happen. Plus it took from 12/02 until 12/16 before I got all of my stuff. It would have been a lot faster to just pick all of it up at Boerne, Tx store. Since I care for 48 cats and three kittens, I go through a lot of litter and cat/kitten food. Any help to get products delivered to MY HOME ADDRESS would have meant more to me.
This might be light to carry, but also light enough to have my cats carry litter all over the house. I literally have cat litter everywhere - it sticks to their paws, and has been carried everywhere. Would definitely not buy this product again.
Well here is the thing, I was so excited when I saw it and bought the large box.  I brought it home and still have not been able to open the box….Just wondering if anyone thought of older people like myself with two cats. I was thrilled with the idea of lifting a light weight box, however the box is so strong and miserable to open that I had to take a screwdriver to it in hopes of breaking though the tough box, but no luck. There is no pull tab nothing, just an older senior pounding away on the box hoping to break through to get to the new light weight Tidy Cat Litter. Please, Please make an easier to open box.
I was so happy to see a light weight clumping litter that I bought two large sized containers. I was sorry that I did. The litter clumps just fine however the mess is unbelievable. Litter is all over the house and on every surface. It is so lightweight that it goes wherever the cat does. I will never buy this again. 
Just changed the litter box yesterday with the new Light Weight Litter.  I'm headed back to the store today to purchase a different litter.  I have cat paw prints and litter tracked all over the wood floors and rugs.  I had to wash the cat's paws to get the litter stuck to his feet off.  This is the messiest litter I've ever purchased.
Doesn't work well for multiple cats. Normally of fan of Tidy Cats but not this one. Had to change the box completely every 3 days, and my cats aren't even in the house 24/7 .Waste of money :(
It used to work great, but I think they have changed it recently. It no longer clumps but makes a nasty mess in the bottom of the cat pan that is next to impossible to remove. I have seen others are having this problem as well. We are going to try something else.
I bought this litter on Sunday and I have already dumped it out and reverted back to the traditional Tidy Cats. My cats could easily kick it out of the box, spraying litter all over the floor. It stuck in their fur and paws to be tracked all over my apartment. I have vaccuumed twice tonight and am still finding litter on the carpet. Do not buy this product.
UPDATE: Later on 7/25/13: I finally got a call back from Amazon customer service. They are going to try replacing the order from a different warehouse. This seems reasonable to me. Someone else had the same issue but we are both from the same warehouse and the rep gave me the choice of waiting a few days while they investigate the cause or having them ship out the replacement from a different location in case the issue is isolated to the warehouse. I think this is a great way to think outside the box. The worst thing that can come of it is that I end up 1 pack closer to a full 10! ********************************************************************************************************************* Original review: I had to order a single pack for $12.50 because Amazon was unable to fulfill my subscribe and save order when I was out. The nearest store that sells these is 2 hours away. Today my order (pack of 10) arrives at my office at 7:15pm and it is a huge box of air pillows with 1 pack of pads in it! At this rate it is going to be cheaper to drive the 2-hours than to keep staying late at the office waiting for UPS to show up whenever they want to deliver 2-day packages that don't contain what they are supposed to. (UPS will be hearing about that) Apparently Amazon STILL has a problem with this product and their systems aren't noticing that their packages only weigh 1/10 of what they are supposed to. It would seem to me that as automated and smart as these systems are that they would kick packages out for human inspection that are that much over or underweight in the name of customer service.
I thought it was just me, but the clumping action is not as good as it used to be./ And the urine odor is strong, which I do not recall ever having that problem with this product. While I would usually recommend this or the instant action, I do not know that I can do so any longer. What ever you did...please change it back!
I was happy when I first bought this litter, mostly because it saved me a long haul carrying the heavier stuff. I've never seen litter produce so much dust. My lungs have become so irritated, I've begun using a face mask whenever I scoop. I can only imagine what it's doing to my cats. They are long-haired and this stuff clings to their fur. They leave a thick white film wherever they sit or lay next. It also seems to get in their paws more than any other litter I've tried. I'm vacuuming every day, just trying to keep up. I just dug my receipts out of the trash, and I'm heading back to PetSmart for a store credit. Buyer beware. Bad, bad product.
I BOUGHT THIS TWO WEEKS AGO, AND IT DIDN'T DO ANY BETTER THAN MY OLD BRAND. ESPECIALLY WITH THE COST I EXPECTED A LOT MORE FROM THIS LITTER. I HAVE 10 CATS IN MY RESCUE AND WAS VERY HOPEFUL WHEN I PURCHASED THIS NEW LITTER, ONLY TO BE DISAPPOINTED.
I tried a box of this litter. I like the fact that it's much lighter then other litters. And that the only good thing about this litter. When you pour it, there's clouds of dust flying. And when you clean it, there's more (contaminated) dust flying. And because it's lighter in weight, when the cats scratch it, the litter goes flying around much more. And it sticks to the cats' fur and paws a lot more. So now I'm finding contaminated litter all over the house. I think that's this is a good idea that just doesn't work. Plus it's about $5 more then other litters. I'll never buy this product again.
I purchased this because living on the second floor and carrying cat litter was hard on my knees. I tried this thinking it was going to be the best, but boy was I wrong. I have dust all over my house and my poor cat has it in her nose, not to mention that it gets stuck in her fur and paws making an even bigger mess. I am very disappointed that more testing was not done on this product before it was put on the market. I guess they hoped that the lightweight perk would pull people in and unfortunately, I feel as if I was suckered into buying a product that makes a bigger mess than what it is worth.
This is the worst litter I have ever provided for my cats. It is VERY dusty, heavily perfumed, and seems to be everywhere except in the box. The cats hate it. Since I bought it, they have adopted a drop and run policy. They don't even try to dig in it. When I have to scoop out the boxes, my nose runs constantly and I start sneezing. The dust it leaves coats everything and has a strange dusty yet somewhat greasy feel. I have also noticed a huge increase in litter being tracked around the house and onto my bed. NEVER AGAIN!
Tried litter out liked the weight since I have 2 large cats and a XL box fits 2 buckets. After first day noticed white cat paw prints on our black couch. And prints down the hall on our wood floor. Several times cats had waste follow them on there paws and litter seems cause of its lite weight spread further away from box.  I can't recommend it will go back to the original tidy cat red/blue boxes.
This is the absolute WORST cat litter I have ever used. This litter has made me wonder if the people on the product development team at Purina even have cats. I just cleaned the litter box. I can feel myself inhaling the dust in the air as I type this, and I cleaned the litter box about an hour ago (and the box is in a different room from where I am sitting). It tracks everywhere. EVERYWHERE. It is an utterly infuriating disaster. It is like styrofoam mixed with powdery laundry detergent, but with a little more weight. I HATE THIS CAT LITTER with an absolute passion and hope it leaves the shelves soon. A complete waste of time and money, and the cause of great frustration.
We tried two large bags of this litter and it tracks badly into other areas of the house. My cats( 4 of them) use a large box in a half bath near our garage entry to the house. Their box sits on tile thankfully. I swept the litter area four to five times a day and still had tracking into the hallway and other areas. The box is changed regularly. The litter lasts longer than some but I still could not convince myself to stay with it due to the tracking. I did not care for the scent either. It was okay but something about it put me off and I could not get beyond that issue either. I have gone back to a combination of another of your litters and one of those from your competition that is nearly trackless.
Great idea for a lighter-weight litter since I buy 35 lbs containers and can barely carry them upstairs. Sadly, will not purchase again as it is way too dusty. More dusty than the regular formula. Please fix the dust issue and I will buy it again!
The dust is horrible!!!! Seriously?? It works great and I love the light weight but the dust is just ridiculous. Can't you do something about this? I am trying to use it up but it's taking forever. Even my cats use that box the least. I have 3 boxes and that one with the dusty stuff is used least. I will go back to my regular Tidy Cat. I'm disappointed. I don't get how someone didn't think this would be a problem. It's so obviously too dusty!
Thought this would be great, it was so light but the dust Is terrible! Would never buy again unless this problem is fixed.
This is terribly dusty. Yes, it is light but that benefit is far outweighed by the dust. We have our litter boxes in our basement and cannot imagine using it anywhere else. Will not be buying again!
I usually use the tidy Cat small spaces instant action, but this was cheaper, and really, how much of a difference could there be? Oh, SO MUCH. It's possible this would work well in a situation with frequent cleaning of the catbox (like, daily.) I clean the cat box once a week, as I have only one cat. However, as he's a middle aged male cat, he's got a water fountain, and apparently pees every 4 hours or something. And this litter is THE WORST for liquids. The clumps don't hold, and they don't dry out as well as the other varieties do. So the damp clumps of cat litter break apart, and they stink. Usually I can clean the box and top it off with fresh litter on a weekly basis, and change the whole litter maybe every 6 months or so when the remaining litter stops clumping. This litter, I have to the whole cat box about once a month, as it's a stinky damp mess. I don't recommend this, but rather suggest that you should get the Instant Action instead.
I purchased this product the other day and my cat is funny about stepping on it. He will barely get into thew box usually with his front legs outside the box, he has never done this before. There has never been any litter around my home now all the sudden there is litter in my living room in the front of the house, the litter box is over 60 feet away in the back of the home. I'm switching back to the multi cat litter.
I was so excited when Tidy Cats came out with a lightweight product!  I ve always had to have some help getting the regular weight in the house;however, after using the new stuff for a week. I will NEVER use it again!  It did not control the odor and I had to change the litter sometimes twice a day.  My cats ""flung" it all over.  The biggest problem was the litter didn't dry and when I went to clean the box it was soaking wet underneath. My scoop broke!!  Anyway, I'm going back to my old tried and true heavy Tidy Scoop..........wasted 12.99!!!!
Will never buy again.  There is NO odor control and actually makes it worse. 
This litter claims to have tight clumps but they are pretty much nonexistent. I like to scoop every day to get the smell out of the box and out of my house. All this does is fall apart and mix in with the dry litter making the entire box smell like cat urine.
I have used Tidy Cats litter for over a decade an I must say this INSTANT Action is the worst.  It clumps like most others, but leaves a trail everywhere.  I will go back to using 24/7 Performance and leave this one behind.
It might be light weight but it doesn't help with odor, we have to use more of it., and we have to change the letterbox a lot more frequently I will be glad when we have finished with this and can go back to our regular litter. Very poor product and would not recommend it to anyone!
It's lightweight comes at a cost. It doesn't absorb odors as well or as quickly as Small Spaces cat litter. I had to get some because my local store didn't have any type of litter that I normally use. My cat did her thing in the litter box. I thought she didn't cover it. Checked and it is completely covered but still stinks. This didn't happen with the other litter. If it was covered it stopped stinking pretty quickly. It's still stinking as I write this review. This is worse than using one of those disposable cat litter packages that has the box/litter combined in one. It's even worst than using the all crystal type of litter. I'm going to use this to put on ice outside so the sidewalk isn't slippery. I might even try to use it to absorb oil spills when changing my oil. It's got to have some other uses since it is a failure at it's intended use.
I purchased this a month ago and gave it a fair try. It makes a terrible mess when the cat paws at it to cover up and it turns into a giant brick if you don't stay on top of use all day long. Will not purchase again. Even throwing out the remainder. Not worth the headache. 
I do not like this. It is really hard to sift and scoop. it really bothers my sinuses, so I know it has to bother my cats... I will not buy this again...
first -- there was still order. this doesn't bother me in the scheme of things. second -- the scoops fell apart when i tried to scoop them out of the litter box. i will not buy this product again. this one factor was a biggy for me. the numerous other brands of scoopable litter have not fell apart.
This litter is everywhere in my house!! It sticks to my cats hair like loose styrofoam and they are tracking it everywhere. Its disgusting!!  I bought the large box at Sams....what a waste :(
Bought them....... .. Transitioned them........ They go everywhere but their liter box.  Do not recommend.  
I bought this a week ago for my two cats. Hate those heavy boxes of litter. Scooping was great. Thought this was going to be great. 5 days later, the litter is all over the house, it is so light it flies everywhere. It clumps into glue in my cats' paws and they can't get it off. And it's sticking to their fur in uncomfortable places. I went and bought another product today and throwing this light stuff away. Don't waste your money.
I used this for a month and found it to be very dusty!!! Will not use this ever again!!
I tried this with my 2 cats and I do not like it. The material reminds me of wet sand when they use it. I will not buy this again but will go back to the original tidy cat and deal with the heaviness 
Our cats REFUSE to use the box. We have had it 3 weeks and have done everything we were told to do and they still don't use it.  We have pretty much given up!  Great concept, but not good at all!!
Bought this simply because it was lightweight. Unfortunately, the litter tracks all over the place, leaves dust, and does nothing to control odors. I was very disappointed and will definitely go back to using Fresh Step.
Not a lot to say that others haven't already. YES- it's lighter. But it's like they've replaced normal clumping litter with a lighter ASH that you have to sift through to scoop (and your cats track through going in and out). It doesn't clump well. Like ash, it attaches to the cats' feet and tracks everywhere. It doesn't scoop well. It's very dusty. It was just a terrible experiment on Tidy Cats part and they probably knew they should ~not~ have put this product out on the market as-is. Oh.. and the cost here? Is ridiculous! I got this box @ a Sam's Club for under $20 easily. Don't pay this!
The only way this cat litter could be any worse is if it spontaneously combusted in the cat pan. No, wait, spontaneous combustion would burn off some of the dust, and that would be a good thing. So, it turns out this cat litter cannot be any worse. At first, I thought it might be a great thing for my mother to have: she has arthritis in her hands and difficulty lifting heavy items. But when no one is around to lift for her, she will not be dissuaded from lifting things that are too heavy for her. I figured cat litter designated "lightweight," with a feather on the box, no less, might keep her from doing anything too foolish. Although this 18 pounds of litter does do the work of 40 pounds, therefore justifying the feather on the box, there should also be a picture of a dust storm on the box. Turns out this litter is so light that pouring it out of the box releases great billowing clouds of dust. This dust gets everywhere. In addition the box is rather poorly designed. The handle for carrying the box is on top of the box. But to open the box, one must use a pull tab that opens 2/3 of the box on three sides. If you open the box using the pull tab and then lift it using the handle, you're liable to see the box flop forward and dump half your extremely expensive litter on the floor. And in so doing, release clouds of dust. Finally, this stuff is so expensive you'd do just a well cost-wise to buy 40 pounds of cat litter in small, separate containers. At least that way you don't have a ton of dust to clean up.
I have heard great things about this product so I decided to give it a try and was looking forward to a cleaner, more manageable solution for my little guy to use. However, I am posting such a low rating due to the ridiculous hassle I've experienced with getting the product I paid for. I was very disappointed when I opened the box only to find that a major piece of the product was missing. I called to ask that the missing piece be sent to me and was told by a customer service rep, that they are unable to send out missing parts of an order and I would have to process a full return then have a new one sent out. Although that is incredibly inconvenient for me, I can understand that might be necessary since the product is a 'packaged kit'. The customer service rep proceeded to process the return with me over the phone and notified me they would send a return label to me in the mail. After holding, the rep returned to the phone to inform me the item is not eligible for return and that they don't believe it's possible to order the piece I'm missing separately. Now I'm left with half of what I paid for, a ton of wasted time and no solution to the issue. I'm incredibly disappointed to say the least.
too much dust and leaves order over night some odor is smelled in am
I never make reviews but I felt I needed to in this case. I will say that the one positive thing about this litter is that it is so lightweight. Carrying this from my car to the house was so simple. But that is about it. This litter clumps in such a weird way. My cat would pee and it would not clump together, it would be a huge gooey mess. It was disgusting! The worst thing about this is the amount of tracking. I know regular cat litter tracks, but trust me, not like this. I found myself vacuuming every other day. It tracked EVERYWHERE, and not just a little bit. It was all over the place. I could not wait to switch back to my regular litter. Do not buy. It is not worth the money!
If I could give this a zero I would. Worse cat litter I've ever purchased. Yes its light until you try to scoop it. Its like trying to get dry play doh out of the box. awful. Would never buy it again.
I started using the Dual Power type a few weeks ago. It finally hit me yesterday that my cats' sudden urination and defacation in various parts of my house began when I switched litter. I changed their boxes last night with the old litter and problem solved. Maybe the pieces are too sharp on their feet? Maybe the new litter smells odd to them?
PREVIOUS REVIEW: My cat has kidney disease, which means he urinates at least twice (I'd say 3x) as much as a regular cat. I don't want to write a long review, but let's just say that regular clumping litter is awful for this. He goes through bags and bags of litter, and because he urinates so often, it never quite dries AND he is tracking 3x as much around the house. I don't know why I didn't see this system earlier. THIS IS AMAZING!! I have to change the pads probably 3 times a week because of his situation, but still, this is cheaper than all the litter (and much cleaner). I haven't gotten him to do anything but pee in the box (I still have a second litter box with clumping litter), but I may try to switch him over in the future. He prefers this box for urinating because it is so clean all the time. Overall, would recommend to anyone, and especially for kidney-disease elderly cats. UPDATE 1 YEAR LATER---------- After throwing out two Breeze boxes, I'm back to the traditional litter box system. I would love for this to work, but here were the two main problems for me: -1. Need a full litter hood! C'mon now Tidy Cat, make a full litter hood you can at least purchase. The biggest issue is that my a) my cat digs for 5 minutes and it is incredibly LOUD with the litter required, b) one of my cats doesn't feel secure without a hood. I solved this by going to Lowes and building a litter box cabinet that fit the box perfectly. Unfortunately, not everyone has the desire to BUILD a litter box hutch. And paint it. Even if Tidy Cat did create a hood, however, I would need further improvements to lure me back. -2. The biggest issue is that the grating is built into the box itself. Every once in a while, my cat would have an accident of loose stools, thereby dooming the box. No matter what you do, there is just no way to get all the loose stools out of the grating. I'd tried many things, such as pouring boiling water on it, using toothpicks to try to knock it out. The problem is that I live in an apartment and don't have a hose. For those of you who live in stand-alone homes, you would probably take the box out into the grass and shoot it with a hose or power-washer. Since I couldn't do that, and the box was much too large to fit into the sink or anywhere else for cleaning, it was a huge mess. Simple solution, Tidy Cat. Create a two-tiered system of trays. One tray that held the square grating and another for the litter liner, as it is now. If you could slide the grating out, you could soak it (ew, but I'd do it) in the sink and then re-insert. It might add $5-10, but I bet there would be crazy people who build litter box hutches willing to pay for the upgrade. As it is, I'm back to the traditional boxes. Too bad - it was a nice run, Tidy Cat.
I bought this thinking I was getting 3 jugs of at least 14lbs of cat litter. My fault, but I would not buy again or recommend. Way too expensive!
I have a 15 year old - indoor cat that is diabetic. He needs two litter boxes... he drinks a lot of water. When a friend told me about the Breeze.. it sounded perfect. My picky cat actually took to using it to "pee" only in a few days. I left another regular litter box by it. About the 3rd day of use, my cat became very sick and I noticed blood on his blanket. He was bleeding from intestinal infection. After a $200 trip to our wonderful vet, liquid antibiotics and a lot of water, he recovered. I noticed a few pellets were on the rug and then in the hall. I started watching him carefully... he was eating the pellets. Not a few but a lot of them! They do not dissolve... fortunately, he "expelled" them from both ends within a few hours. The litter box went away and returned to Petsmart for a refund. I called Purina and filed a full report so they would know what happened. If I had not been home to see this - he would have died. Those pellets!! BAD!!!
I have virtually no odor with your 24/7 or Instant Action. There is a lot of odor with Dual Power, so much so my daughter said there was a definite smell of urine in the room with the cat box (she doesn't live with me). Sorry I purchased this one.
The urine smell is horrible. Never had any trouble with our old litter. Decided to give this a try. Won't buy it again.
I wanted to try tthe "all natural" route. This is too smelly for me. It was also very dusty. I like the clay Tidy Cat, but this was not a good pick. It was fine with fesus, but with urine, the smell mixed with the wood smell and was not good even cleaning it once/twice a day.
I just loved it when the litter was more potable in the two handled container, being 72 years old, it made it easier to carry. I have used Purina products since 1962. This product needs to go away as it is, and stay with your Tidy Cats, sans Glade. I use Tidy Cats deodorizer when needed and it smells great. I hope you don't discontinue " power blend". What about the safety of this lighter product? I would recommend all your products including your cat food, except for the above.
I have always used regular tidy cats. But lately, my house smells like a urine factory!! I do NOT like this new product at all! I clean the cat box every day as I have for years and even when you remove the cat waste, the remaining litter stinks...even more so from being stirred up! I'm going to have to find a different product. 
I have used almost the first jug and really dislike it. The lighter weight is nice but it tracks worse that the clumping litter I used before and it seems only slightly less dusty. My 2 biggest complaints are that it does not clump solid enough for the Litter Maid to rake it. The clumps get gummed up in the rake and then it is like a snow plow and wastes good litter. The other complaint is the smell, it takes 2-3 days to fill a waste bin in the litter maid with two adult cats and by that time my whole house reeks. Not of cat odor, it is the litter odor that is meant to mask the cat odor. Quite frankly I prefer the cat odor. I wont buy it again. Greatly disappointed.
I bought this yesterday thinking it would be great and it smells horrible! It smells those nasty bathroom sprays...but the smell never goes away. 
It weighs less sure, but it takes the whole jug to fill the box and the Instant Action gave me 2 uses. So it costs 3x's a much to use and doesn't work once it's in the box. No odor control and it's dusty, dirty and the cats scatter it everywhere and did I say it stinks? It makes my nursing home room smell like feces and urine.
Thought this might be a pleasant fragrance in an enclosed porch with 2 cats. WRONG!! It is not a fragrance, it is a ODOR. Terrible smell and until I could mix it with other litter on hand, I could barely scoop the boxes. A complete waste of money.
I  bought it thinking it would be the same dust-free  formula that Tidycats normally uses. Not the case. Every time I went to scoop, clouds of dust would billow into the air. It also resulted in my kitten having sneeze attacks until I changed the litter. I don't want to breathe that poo-dust either. No thank you. I will say that it covered  the smell pretty well, though, I think I'll be sticking with the heavy litter. I don't need waste particulates floating around my house.
Love Tidy Cat Regular. This is lighter but not near as effective. Litter particles all by the box and doesn't keep the smell down either, I'll stick with The regular Tidy Cat. That's for one inside cat.
I decided to change my boyfriends cat from regular litter to clumping litter. She made the transition without a problem. But when I would go to clean the litter box, the urine clumps would fall apart. I had some occasions where it wouldn't even clump. It was just dark litter that made the whole box smell.
My husband picked this up. You get what you pay for. Clumps do not stay together and the smell brings out the ammonia even more.  Worst litter ever!
I bought tidy cat multi-cat cat litter and I am extremely upset with the litter, I usually buy fresh step, and never have the issue of cleaning my little every day. With tidy cart if I don't the urine smell is horrible. Wont buy this one again.
I tried this litter because of its weight. I have a one cat household and scoop every day. The smell is terrible, does not eliminate odor, which I never had with my other litter. The litter does not cause dust; however my cat tracks it throughout the house, never again.
I'm a big fan of Tidy Cat products, so I was thrilled to discover this "natural" liter. Unfortunately, besides it's wonderful cedar smell, it is not a good product. Simply put, it doesn't clump. So, it is impossible to "scoop" any waste. My liter box quickly turned into wet, smelly mess. And the strong pet odors lingered and constantly filled the air. I'm surprised that Tidy Cat would market such a poor product.
I have always used Tidy cats clay litter so when I saw Tidy cats pure nature decided to try it. I will say it clumps well but the cedar smell is so strong (my cats use a covered box) they stopped using the box and went on the floor! :(
My cat has been ill and urinates often. My usual brand of litter is Tidy Cats. I find bits of the litter all over my home and vacuum at least twice a day. I decided to try Arm & Hammer on the recommendation of the veterinarian's office. It is better with the tracking than TIdy Cats but I still find some bits and need to vacuum often. My big problem I find with Arm & Hammer and why I can't use it again is the chemical smell it has. It smells like nail polish remover to me. I actually took apart my my kitchen utility box because I thought a tube of glue or epoxy opened up. I was really surprised to realize it was the litter that smelled like this.
This is truly the dustiest cat litter we've ever had.  The entire room is full of dust every time we scoop.  Not only that, its also very smelly dust.  I'll never purchase this again. 
I have always used Tidy Cat and was thrilled when I saw the lightweight litter, but I will be going back to the original weight.  The odor control is definitely NOT the same.  I have two cats and scoop twice a day.  When I come in from work, I can smell the litter box as soon as I open the front door.  This never happened with the original litter.  The dust also seems to be worse with the lightweight litter.  
My grandma bought this because as she gets older it is hard for her to lift heavy things and she was thrilled that she could get litter that she could actually carry herself. However, it was the worst litter she had used. I walked in her house one day and my instant thought was that she hadn't cleaned out the littee for at least a week because it smelled so bad. There were also white paw prints everywhere because when the cat would get he litter wet, it would turn to white powder and stick to the cats paws. My grandma treats that cat like it is her child. She had cleaned the litter and it still smelled terrible. I don't recommend this product to anyone, unless you are keeping it in your car to use when you get stuck somewhere. 
Succumbed to the lightweight tag - it's lightweight because it does NOT control the odor - have always used Fresh step, and sifting liners, and for the first time my house smells like cat litter - guests were always shocked that I had four cats - NOT ANYMORE! Now I have to buy another 80.00 of fresh step, and do all the changing again!
We always by tidy cats litter and are always happy with any one we get, but this time it is horrible. Kinda has a rotten fruit smell to it. Before we by next time will take the cap off for approval, I'd suggest everyone else do the same.
I put this cat litter in the cat box last night before bed and when I woke up this morning it looked like someone had been sawing wood in my kitchen! My floors, table, counter tops, anywhere the cat was last night was just covered in this cat litter! It's awful! I will never buy this again! Don't waste your money!
This is by far the worst litter on the market!  I have two cats.  I bought Tidy Cat due to it's inexpensive nature compared to other litters.  It claimed to be able to provide excellent odor control and good litter quality.  It did not live up to it's claims.  The litter smelled horrible from the very first use by one...
I had been using Feline Pine and loved it. Then it disappeared from the shelves. In it's place was Tidy Cat Pure Nature. It works as well but it has an awful smell coming clean out of the bag. I'd like to continue using this litter but the chemical smell needs to be dealt with.
Bought this because I like tidy cats and the price was right. Should have read it more closely this is NON CLUMPING litter. My cat hates it and has decided to poop on the floor instead of in his box. The flies like it though (gross.) I couldn't even finish using the bag and threw it away. I went back to the tidy cats with the blue bag, we are all happier. Worth paying a little more not to have to clean poop off the floor.
I was soo sorry that I bought this, my perfectly happy cat will not go near the litterbox with this new dual power litter in it. He goes every where but the box!
I bought the lightweight cat litter thinking it would be awesome. My laundry room stinks, my cat tracks it through the house, it sticks like glue to his paws. Im not happy with this product. I usually like Tidy Cat products. Its the cat litter I usually use. I'll go back to my heavy cat litter.
Noticed that when I opened the bag of Tidy cat the stones are bigger and the dust is more pronounced. I bought this kind because I have allergies to the ones that smells of perfume stones. What happend to the kind that the stones were smaller and less dust? I like using this kind because when a cat comes out of the litter box he will have the litter on his paws and then lick it, this kind stays off his paws.I just changed his litter box which I have to every other day and I can smell the dust. I don't think it is 99'9% dust free better check again.
I have been using Tidy Cats Scoop Instant Action forever and absolutely love it, but when I saw Tidy Cats had a more natural approach to kitty litter I decided to try it. And I regretted it. Although I have a deep litter box and use plenty of litter, it doesn't clump well and more often than not fell apart when scooped. Even though the litter itself smells wonderful coming out of the bag, I felt it didn't cover the odor of the litter box even when scooped multiple times daily. My biggest complaint was the tracking--the litter is very fine and sticks to fur and paws which then gets tracked onto furniture and it is very difficult to remove. If you have dark furniture, carpeting, or wood flooring the litter is very noticeable as it gets tracked everywhere your kitty goes.
I used to only buy this brand but recently it has been absolutely horrid. It will not clump at all, and it doesn't seem to deodorize at all, I can constantly smell the litter box, but I clean it every other day. Sorry to say, but I am switching brands and won't be going back. 
I usually use the non clumping regular formula.  I bought the Glade version because the store was out of the regular.  The smell is extremely loud, even for me, and the cat hates it.  I've been having out of the box incidents ever since.
I'm a loyal Tidy Cats user and figured I'd try the new scent but it smells worse than a box of used litter. I keep the litter box in my bathroom and I'm really debating on spending the money for a whole new pail just to get rid of the smell.
Awful product. Tracks EVERYWHERE. Doesn't clump. Makes a gummy, gross mess. The only positive is the smell. It does control odor. I wish I could return it.
I really wanted to like this product, but it was impossible! I don't know how they can put 99.9% dust free on the bag when it has more dust than the regular Tidy Cats litter! I tried a full bag. It never hid the litter box odor, and because the particles are so lightweight, my cat actually tracked more of it through the house. I'm going back to Feline Pine. That stuff does such a great job, my dog can't even smell the box, so he never gets curious about what's in it. The same can not be said about Pure Nature!
I have used Tidy Cats for years and decided to try this litter. I'm extremely disappointed. The litter has an overwhelming scent to it after it is used. I clean my litter box twice a day, but this litter still stinks it makes the room smell disgusting. I'm going to throw away whats left in the container and replace it with my normal Tidy Cats formula.
I have been using the small spaces litter for my (one) cat, and decided to try this since it's lighter (I live in a high rise). I was very disappointed though and had to leave this review. This is the most dusty litter I have ever come across! I have mild asthma and could not breathe just scooping the box - never mind refilling it!! Plus another huge negative - it gets tracked SO much more than the regular one! It also sticks to my cat's fur and paws when completely dry for further tracking. I have to sweep/vacuum multiple times a day instead of once. Clumping for urine works much better (doesn't stick to box as much - huge plus) but it's probably from the film of dust! And I don't know what people are referring to about good odor control - clean box smells after one use. I do not recommend.
I put it in my litter box and the next day dust was coming from it. I have asthma and can't take the dust. I was using the heavy Tidy Cat for years and it would start dusting after a couple to three days. PLEASE HELP You say 99.9 % dust free.
I bought this product because I was tired of carrying the heavy bags home from the grocery store! This product was great and light weight! Very happy!
it dosent work!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
We have three cats with four litter boxes. Tried the lightweight litter one of them. Two of our cats refused to use it and the litter did not last as long as other brands. It's light for sure and easy to carry.
I bought this at Meijers and was excited to try a lightweight product because I live in a 3rd floor walk-up. OMG, there was white dust everywhere when I poured it and, Sam, my cat, tracked the granules everywhere. There were white footprints all over my house. The odor control was just ok and there was too much fragrance for my taste. I gave it 2 stars because it was lightweight 
I have used regular Tidy Cat for years, and love it's odor control. I decided to try the new light wt., because the other is so heavy. The light weight does not control the odor. You need to go back to the drawing board. I will not use it again. I am now going to drive back to Walmart's, 15 miles, & get the old stuff! Thank you, Nora Stephens
You can buy this for $12 to $15 dollars at target. Don't waste your money buying it on here. The product itself works great though! Smells very fresh and the empty containers can be repurposed for almost anything, I use them for crafts, tools, bathroom supplies, pretty much anything.
Avoid unless you like stinky litter. I just bought this because the place I get my litter from didn't have the usual stuff and I thought I'd try this one. I am so displeased with it I'm writing a review anywhere i can. It's true to its advertisement that it is lightweight, but it's not remotely as effective as Tidy Cats' other litter versions. The most annoying thing I find about poor cat litter is the amount of time it takes for it to stop newly deposited scat to stop smelling. This brand is the worse. It's takes a long time for it to stop stinking. If I had a choice between using one of those all crystal type of litters (which in my experience takes awhile to stop stinking) or using this lightweight stuff, I'd choose the all crystal type. Tidy Cats' other litters perform better than this one. I also noticed it to be very dusty when pouring out of the container. My recommendation on cat litter is using Tidy Cats Small Spaces version of litter. It stops the odor pretty quickly, doesn't track too much, and definitely isn't as dusty as the lightweight version. Cat Attract is also another good brand that works very well but it comes at a premium. Ugh! it's still stinking even after writing reviews at two places! This litter is going to be relegated to other uses: oil spill cleanup and sidewalk ice traction control. It's not good for it's intended purpose.
I liked the idea and in theory or would work, I just moved into an one bedroom apartment from a four bedroom house and no longer having the luxury to leave an entire section of the house to the cat, so this was my last effort before buying a 300 dollar car genie which works when it wants to according to some reviews. Well I took it home and set it up in the evening and the smell of poop woke me up in the middle of the night. Going to try to return this to the retail, no way I can stand that smell every time my cat does #2, can't sit next to the box and catch poop 24 hours a day either.
I tried this litter because I really was sick of carrying the 40lb. boxes of arm and hammer up the stairs. Pros: -very light and easy to transport -smells nice and controls odors -excellent clumping Cons: -very dusty. Cleaning the litter box leaves my lungs very irritated. With every scoop, adjust cloud emerges. It even aggravated my kittens sinuses. -It tracks EVERYWHERE!!! There's litter all over. I can't say it's my kitten because I didn't have this problem with arm and hammer. -Residue remains on my kittens paws. First, eeeew. That's gross. No one wants litter residue all over their house. Secondly, now there's white paw prints on every surface she's on. I have to constantly wipe down areas. -kitten sinks into it. It's not very dense, so my kitten sinks into the litter to the bottom of her litter box. I have to continuously clean to make sure she's not sinking into her own excrement. I just bought this litter and can't afford to just chuck it. I wish I just stuck with my arm and hammer. I'll never buy this product again.
I really wanted this litter to be awesome because I HATE lugging normal cat litter. Unfortunately, my biggest complaint is that the odor control is NOT the same. With my normal litter, I could leave my cats box unscooped for up to a week before I would smell anything. With this litter, her whole room smelled in 2 days. I do want to make a point of telling everyone that they have a satisfaction guarantee printed right on the box - and all you have to do to get your money back is submit a rebate through the link they provide.
I don't know if maybe I got a bad batch of this stuff or what but it smell so terrible, like rotting fruit. I hate going near it and both of my cats do also. While it masks the smell of the litter box, the smell of this stuff is so bad I would almost prefer the other. Going back to my normal tidy cats 24/7 performance litter and won't get this one again.
I have tried just about every cat litter there is. We have five cats and I refuse to let the house smell of catpee and catpoo. We go through a lot of litter with 4-5 catboxes, so I was hoping for the best with this one. It is lightweight, that part is true. But after a week, even after scooping it smells like pee. This is inside a boodabox with a filter on it too. I wish this would have worked because I would have been willing to pay more for the lack of weight but it just doesn't. Luckily I didn't go for the giant size but just one jug and when that is gone I won't buy it again.
I got this system for my first kitten after being told by both a friend and a vet tech that this was the best thing out there. Boy oh boy were they completely wrong! It is definitely fantastic for masking the pee and smell of the cat pee but when he poos in it, it's like a 1 year old took his diaper off and poo'd all over the house! It's AWFUL to clean up! It doesn't clump, it smears all over the bottom & the sides (and the scooper when you're attempting to scoop it up), and it STINKS. There is NO masking the smell of the poo at all! You throw out a cup of pellets each time you clean it up which means a bag of pellets will DEFINITELY not last a month! This is with a 4 month old kitten pooing, I can't imagine with a full grown cat or multiple cats. Very, very bad investment. I wish I had bought ANYTHING else.
I bought this litter for my oldest cat whose paws have become more tender in his old age. While the litter is very soft to the touch, it is also the stinkiest litter I've ever used. The combination of cedar & pine are a punch in the nose to say the least. I literally got a pounding headache every time I scooped the box. The odor is so strong it almost smells fake, like it was sprayed with fragrance. As far as clumping goes, this product is terrible. I've used all natural litters for many years so I know that clumping isn't their strongest feature but this Tidy Cat version is so bad, it shouldn't even be called clumping. You basically get a pile of wet wood shavings & sawdust which is difficult to scoop & keep clean. I applaud Tidy Cat for attempting to put a more natural product on the market but this litter missed the mark by a mile. I would not recommend this litter, especially if you have an aversion or allergy to strong fragrances.
I first purchased this last summer when I had to set up a separate box for a litter of six kittens I was fostering. I did not like it because instead of clumps, I was scraping mud off the bottom of the box. But my sister liked it so I thought it might just be because I had all six kittens in one box - they were only four weeks old so that shouldn't have mattered. I recently took in a little mama to foster and decided to use this in her room since she would be the only one using it. I didn't have the same problem with the mud so decided to buy several jugs to use with the other boxes in the house. I attributed the difference to the litter boxes themselves - these were all hard, slick plastic whereas with the kittens I had been using a box with softer, less slick plastic. It didn't take me long to figure out that mud was just the beginning of the problems with this litter. Firstly, there is ZERO odor control. I kept smelling horrid litterbox smells, so I would inspect the boxes and find maybe one pee clump in one and one poo in another. All of my residents and all of my current fosters are good coverers and odor is not normally a problem unless I get behind in scooping. I was scooping all day long and still had a stinky house. Secondly, suddenly litter was EVERYWHERE. On the toilet seats, on my desk, on the couch, IN THE BED. I use lattice-topped boxes and fuzzy rugs to confine tracked litter to a very small area so I was flummoxed as to why suddenly litter was everywhere. Then one day as I picked little mama's box up to take into the bathroom to scoop it, I noticed the litter was literally JUMPING OUT OF THE BOX! Static electricity had brought it to life. That's when I started paying attention and saw that this litter was clinging to all the cats' feet and legs due to static electricity. Long and short of it is the incompatibility with all plastic types, the lack of any odor control, and the fact that it comes to life in the dryness of wintertime means I'll continue to get my exercise lugging jugs of regular litter.
Before you purchase, be very sure of the characteristics of you cat's poop. Sounds gross, I know, but I believe it will help predict your success with this product. I previously used clay - poop okay but hated urine smells. I was on the fence for a long time with the Breeze product, when I had to make a change in litter box location due to a new puppy in the house. Long story short, if your cat has nice formed, mostly dry poops, this might work just fine. But if your cat tends to have anything on the mushy side (one of my guys has an irritable bowel, vet thinks) it's disgusting. The pellets adhere tremendously and scooping is gross. I have two Siamese, 12 and 14 lbs, and I did like the idea of the urine floating down to the pad, but what stays on top...I could not deal with. Going to the clumping kind...
Not sure what I did wrong, because these reviews are wonderful, but this did not work AT ALL for me. It seemed to be great for a few weeks, but for some reason into month two the smell just got unbearable. It was to the point where I was replacing pellets every week and pads every day or two, and my entire house still smelled like urine. I really wanted this to work - its so cheap and easy! However, back to clay and daily scooping for me...at least now I can let people in my house!
I used to love this product.  It was reasonably priced and did a great job at odor control.  Then, all of the sudden, it stopped working.  I don't know if they changed the formula or I got a bad batch but it wouldn't clump and the litter box smelled horribly of ammonia.  I'm not buying it anymore
The worst cat little I have ever purchased, and I have owned cats my entire life. It is lightweight, but they fail to tell you that it will track all over the house. I am cleaning my floors and stairs multiple times a day. Not for just a little bit, but for lots of litter tracked all over the house by one pet. Aweful and a wate of my money!!!
This is absolutely the worst cat litter i have ever used. I'm handicapped, and was looking forward to a lightweight litter. BUT: It's entirely too dusty, makes ME and the KITTIES sneeze. Because it's so fine textured, it flies out of the covered litterbox at the slightest scratching by a kitty. There is absolutely NO odor control, have to keep dumping deodorizer and baking soda in the boxes, several times per day.
Love the idea of lightweight but sorry it has a flaw. It is light and clumps for sure, problem is it a stays on their feet. My kitchen floor has to be sweeped often, it sticks to the rug in kitchen, my bed where they sleep has it. The cats drop it off their feet all over the house. I will give you this, it maintains a clean smell as I clean the box every day.
This has got to be one of the biggest marketing brainstorms in history. Sell a bag of sawdust for over $10.00. I had hoped the litter would be the same as Nature's Miracle (or Pro Pet Fresh Results, manufactured for WalMart), but it is nothing more than fluffy sawdust. The cats will spread it everywhere. It flies about easily because it is extremely lightweight. You would be better off sweeping up sawdust from a carpenter's shop than paying through the nose for this worthless product. SUCKS.
Great product, works great and love that it's lightweight! Unfortunately at twice the price of regular litter, I can not afford to use it :(
It's half the wait but it's twice the price. how can one afford that these days? yes I would recommend this product to my RICH friends.
The tracking is horrible. Twice as bad as the regular litter. It is also very dusty. Have used Tidy Cats 24/7 and am very satisfied with it.
I bought this product after reading the positive reviews posted by others. It was a big disappointment. I find it hard to believe that someone has this product and cannot smell anything. My husband actually threw up!We have 3 kittens and they would saturate the pads in less than a day. The poop just sits on top and stinks, not to mention it is a big mess to scoop it out. I replaced this setup with a large rubbermaid tote, and scoopable multi-cat litter. Our home is happy again! Don't waste your money!!!
I loved the fact it is light weight. Less dust. Less tracking the litter around. He used it for 2 days then started coughing and pulled a towel down off the shelf near his box and used that instead. He refused to use the box till I put the multicat tidy cat litter back in. He loves that and so do I cause it covers the aroma from the box. It is just heavy when I buy the big box of it. Yes I have 1 cat but use multicat anyway.
My teenage daughter got honor roll so we got her a kitten(7 months old). We rescued him from SPCA. While he was there he was using the pine pellets. I read extensive reviews on litter boxes since I have not owned a cat in over 19 years. I was very impressed with the Breeze litter system. It looked so cool. I really loved the fact that litter wasn't tracked throughout the house. This bothers me more than the smell. Anyway, I bought the Breeze system and some extra pellets. I read that one bag isn't enough. I left his old litter box beside the Breeze just in case. He used the Breeze to pee in and then he finally pooped in it so I took his old one away. That was a huge mistake! He obviously didn't like his experience pooping in the Breeze. The whole experience stressed him out so he decided to use my son's bed as a litter box. First he pooped on it so we cleaned that up. While the bed was stripped he pooped and peed on it. Needless to say...$220 later(to replace his mattress) we switched back to the clump able litter. We bought him a huge corner covered litter box with a little rug to go in front of it. It's been a week and a half later and he's been using it with no accidents. I just wanted to share my experience to warn everyone. The Breeze is a great idea...if your cat will use it.
This summer our family took in a stray cat as our own. Since we had never had a cat before we knew exactly nothing about kitty supplies so I did some research. We finally settled on the Breeze litter system based on its great reviews and urine-odor-control concept. From the get go we had issues with the system. Setup was super easy and it did seem to control urine odor somewhat ok, but oh my gosh! It did NOTHING for poop smell. After a few months of immediate poop scooping, changing the pee pad twice a week and scrubbing the pan with cleaner once a week, I gave up and bought some regular clumping litter and a new box. The improvement was immediate! Between the cost of the pads, pellets and the ridiculous amount of baking soda I bought to help control odor we spent a fortune and STILL had a stinky box/house. Don't waste your money on this. It is a great concept, but just doesn't work.
To call it "odor neutralizing" borders on false advertising. It stinks, clumps poorly, hard to empty box and clean and it tracks all over. I scoop the box morn and eve and by day 3, my female is going right outside the box. I am using plug in neutralizes AND adding baking soda to it. Yesterday, I bought a container of regular Tidy Cat to mix with it. Defeats the whole purpose of overpaying for this product but I can't afford to throw it out. Just posted a review on Tidy Cats and they offer a $5 coupon for the review. I didn't even take it!
Tidy cat litter in my opionon sucks. Its clay cat litter and when your cat pee's in it it seeps right though. It does not clump up like it claims it does. This is the worst cat litter I could have ever bought. Plus it has no odor control what so ever. And the price for what you get is not that good either. If you want my honest opionion this...
I have used this a few times and although it is SUPERB at controlling odor, it gets all over the house. It seems to stay on the cats paws and I find it all over the laundry room, kitchen floor and even in our bed!! I have a rug and well as one of those mats that are supposed to help keep the litter from getting all over. Nothing helps. You either have to sweep and vaccum every time the cat uses the litter or just get used to walking on it. At least this is my experience with it. I wish they could figure out a way to fix that because I really do like the way it controls the odor. For now, I will be going back to my other brand..
I love the concept, but the product isn't perfected yet.
I buy 3 of your yellow bags a week at Walmart. Interesting enough, the blue carries the same litter at a much higher price! If I did not have 14 cats, I would stop using the "same" litter but Walmart only sells single bags. On 1 shipment, I did receive different litter and I thought they had realized their error, but no.
If you do try this stuff, KEEP YOUR RECEIPT!! They offer a %100 guarantee of satisfaction. I stupidly threw my receipt away on accident, and got stuck with this junk. BUYER BEWARE
I was very excited to try this product but ended up tossing it out after 2 days. Although it is lightweight, my cat managed to kick out tons of it.
This is too easy to melt. It makes me not to easy to clean up. I don't buy again this and not recommended.
I nearly always buy Tidy Cat litter. I really liked the idea of a lighter-weight litter for my convenience since I buy several containers at a time. However, it is definitely not 99.9% dust free. Just the opposite, I can see a cloud of dust when I scoop the litter pans and it is making a mess in my house on the furniture. Other reviewers said they did not notice it being any dustier than the regular. But I have purchased 5 large containers and it is all the same. I like the idea of a light weight litter but the dust is the deal breaker. The cats however seem to like it just as well but I can not imagine that all that dust they breath when in the litter pans is good for them. Fix the excess dust problem and I might try it again. Until then I am back to the regular Tidy Cat litter.
After about a year cat-free (*sob*), we welcomed 2 new guys into the home. It was too late to order litter from amazon, so I stopped into a Big Box Store and grabbed this stuff - light! Magical! No more trudging under the weight of clay! Had I come here first, of course, I would have known that it was a BAD choice. This stuff is awful. As other reviewers have stated, the cats sink like in sand, when they dig to cover, there's a cloud, followed by much sneezing. I was overwhelmed with the perfume of this stuff when first pouring it out ... I can imagine how much it must sting the noses of the cats? Worst, however, is the tracking issue. I don't care about cleaning up litter which escapes the box; I DO care that my darlings have imbedded granules stuck to their back paws which they can't seem to even lick off (who'd want to taste that perfumed mess anyway?). I will probably use this up by mixing it in with "real" litter. Heavier, in this case, is better.
The odor control does not work at all! Can't take the stale urine smell, it make me sick to my stomach. Going back to the heavy litter, much better odor control! going to ask for a refund.
I was used to the large size kitty litter so I thought I was getting a great price. However, I think I wasted my money on this smaller size.
This litter is the best at odor control especially for multiple kitty homes, however you can purchase this everyday at Walmart and most pet stores for less than any price posted on Amazon unfortunately. When I see shipping charges of $25-$45 std ... I think there's a problem. Amazon should set clearer guidelines because I think some people get tripped up on the shipping charges
Maybe if you have no other alternative. For us with 3 cats we use one of these in a week. I can get a larger size at a lower price locally.
Derp... these are 7-lb containers. That's barely enough for one litter change. Way overpriced - I can get three as much or more for the same price at the store.
I love that this new litter is less messy and more natural materials. BUT, I have dust everywhere when I clean out the box. I can run my finger inside of the bag and it comes out with dust all over it. For "99.9% dust free" I expected to see WAAAAAAYYYY less than we are experiencing. Even the cats sneeze. Did I get a bad bag or something?
It is true that the litter is lighter. However, it is very dusty. I seriously get chocked out trying to clean the litter box. And, because its so light weight, it is thrown out of the litter box very easily when kitty is scratching. Our litter box has a lid as well. I have to vacuum everyday due to the mess this product makes. Honestly, I would rather lug around the heavier weight litter.
I like the fact that It is light weight but the dust is getting to be too much. The dust is all over everything and I have a covered litter box. It is a great concept, but the dust is a fatal issue for me. The room where I have the litter box is small but the dust is all over the room. As for now, I am going back to the original Tidy Cats. Hopefully, you can find a way to deal with the dust issue and still keep the weight down.
I got this a week ago and am already done. I love that it's lightweight, but my cats have tracked it all over my apartment. The litter "dust" stuck to their wet paws and now there are white paw prints all over my black leather couch. It's disgusting.
I've been using this for a few weeks, and I had a few issues with it. First of all, I think I may be the only one who thinks that it does an AWFUL job clumping. I only have one cat, Lewie, and whenever he peed in there, it would just form a puddle on top of a slightly clumped patch. It also tracks all over the house. I have little white paw prints everywhere! Lewie didn't like the fact that it doesn't clump. He used it for a few days, then stopped using it and peeing on the floors once he discovered it didn't clump as well for him and he couldn't dig and bury like he could with his other litter. I appreciate the few days he gave me of trying it, but sadly, he likes the other litter better, and so do I! Regular Tidy Cats has less dust, less tracking, and much more clumping. I do not like the light weight.