I became a cat owner (took in a stray) in July who happened to be pregnant, giving birth to 3 kittens 7/24/13. First time cat owner, so I have gone through several different types of cat litter, several types of litter boxes. While I like the pellet cat litter box system, I found it the pellets and pads to be expensive. My cat relieves herself quite alot and imo poops as much as 2 cats. I think anyone's goal with cats is to contain/avoid the horrible stinky smell of the cat(s) deposits. I live in a small apartment so the options for litter box placement was minimal and ended up in the bathroom. I've used the pellets and pads, the Arm & Hammer with baking soda (along with applying additional odor spray or a scented soda to help absorb the stink), used the non-clumping litter for the kittens, which worked fine and was very cheap, but quite messy (tracking out of the box). I go through litter quite fast, was buying the 14 to 27 pound boxes. This month (September) I decided to try the Tidy Cats Scoop Instant Action and I have been quite pleased with it's clumping quality and most importantly the containment of the stink! I have found my winner and will continue to use this brand/formula. I'm hoping when the kittens leave us, a 35 pound box will last Momma cat a month but we'll see. Instead of cleaning out the boxes every day, I can now go every two days and I'm pleased with that. I would recommend this product to anyone who isn't satisfied with the litter they use now for any reason (price, doesn't contain smell, doesn't clump nicely). Very glad I decided to try this brand, I won't have to try any other types/brands. Would love to see coupons offered for the product.
I first bought Tidy Cats® 24/7 Performance - Clumping Cat Litter years ago because I liked the convenience of the 14lb jug (so much neater than bags).  Prior to trying Tidy Cats, I had tried many different brands of litter for my 3 cats.  Each cat preferred a different brand.  I was so happy when all 3 cats agreed that Tidy Cats 24/7 was THE BEST!!   It's low dust, has no perfumey smell, clumps hard, and really does lock in odors around the clock. Plus, the cost is very reasonable, even without catching it on sale or using a coupon.  Great Product in a great container!!  After cleaning the empty jugs and tubs, I put them to use in the garage and garden.
"Your house smells so clean! I would never have guessed you have eight cats!" That's what more than one person has said to me over the years! I've tried all the litter brands and Tidy Cats is the clear winner. It also provides the best odor control without having a scent that is too strong for my cats' sensitive noses. I love how it's very low on dust and clumps tightly. I've tried the brand of litter that's made from ground corn, and the odor of the wet litter is gag-inducing! They offer free rebates and $3 - $5 off coupons, and I still won't buy it ever again! I never have an odor problem with Tidy Cats, even when one of my cats refuses to cover up after "doing his business." Another brand is extremely dusty; I would never want my cats to breathe that in every day! Even though Tidy Cats keeps odor away, I scoop the litter boxes twice a day, and also wash the litter boxes and change the litter as directed. That helps too. Litter can only do so much; you still need to scoop it often and leave an inviting clean place for your cats to go to the bathroom. And, if you have cats who urinate outside the box, make sure the litter box is large enough and that it doesn't have a cover on it! I have a giant cat who is long, tall and over 26 lbs. I never found a litter box large enough for him, so I bought a large plastic under-the-bed garment storage tote that is over three feet long. It works great. I had to buy more because the other cats were using it too. I loved the light blue Tidy Cats brand litter box with the raised end. It had a slick surface that keeps clumps from sticking to it, but it just wasn't big enough. Having multiple litter boxes also helps in a multi-cat household; it helps with territory issues and they always have options and can have a place that's their own.
Ran out of Tidy Cat Instant Action & went to closest store in our town to buy litter & they didn't have any, so I bought a different brand of what they had. Worst mistake ever, the smell was horrible it needed to be changed right away! Tidy Cats is the BEST, worth the drive & price to get it!
Excellent product at a typical great Walmart price. Will buy again and would recommend to anyone
Any of the Tidy Cats clumping litters work well for me. As a longtime cat owner, I've tried lots of different types of litters.Tidy Cats is the best. The 24/7 litter is the one I buy most frequency based on packaging (i.e., it comes in a big enough size that makes it worth my while to purchase) and price. I don't find it dusty, and it's good at controlling odors and clumps well. You can buy cheaper litter for sure, but you'll also go through it much more quickly than you will go through your Tidy Cat.  
I have 4 indoor cats and Tidy Cats is the only brand of litter I'll buy. I coupon, and therefore tried another brand, the one in the orange box, and it was terrible! It was dusty, and the scent was gross. I went right back to Tidy Cats and I'm sorry I ever wasted my few dollars on the other brand!
we will only use the blue n yellow tidy cats wont touch n e others even from tidy cat or n e other brand we do rescue n can have 14 or more or less at a time we scoop daily with a litter geni wich is also great no problems with smell or clumping no funky perfume smells absolut best value we can get id rather pay the few exstra bucks to have quality n quantity for the best n longest results no matter how many cats scoop daily keeps it fresh n prevents breakdow n foul odars
I bought 4 to try it out first and got my cats approval. The smell is not the best but tolerable because is not very strong. I bought another 14 containers. Would continue to use it because its practicaly dust free.
I tried this litter after I had a big problem with the Tidy Cat Litter with the red cap. I had some free coupons and I either had to replace my old Tidy Cat Litter with another one, or go to a different brand. I tried this since it was new and my first reaction was that the smell was very nondescript. Glade makes so many great fragrances and I just wasn't impressed with this smell. Other than that, the litter clumped well, I have three cats, and much to my surprise, there was almost no tracking when they came out of the box. This is probably the best Tidy Cat Litter I have used so far, yes, even better than the one with the red cap, since that one tracked way more than this one. I have been using this litter for three weeks now and if they don't make any changes, except for maybe improving the smell, this will be a keeper for me.
This is the best litter I have ever used. It clumps nicely and there is never a mess and no strong urine smell. I will not buy any other litter ! Thank you for coming out with a good product. I find it on sale often too which is great !
I bought the 35lbs. hoping I would not be disappointed....and I have not been!!! This is the best cat litter I have tried and I will buy no other now. I have 4 inside pets and even though I would scoop the litter boxes daily you could always smell ammonia. With this litter I have no smell and it is really absorbent and easy to scoop up. Thank you so much!!!
We were using Tidy Cats - Small Spaces for a long time, and it was great! However, after we moved to NYC, we only found Instant Action in the store. We decided to try it since it's also from Tidy Cats. This one clumps better than Small Spaces, but doesn't smell as nice. Small Spaces actually smells great to me, and Instant Action kills the odor but doesn't release the nice scent like Small Spaces. Overall, I'm satisfied with this product, and will continue to buy it if we can't find Small Spaces. PS. We live in a one bedroom apartment and there's no bad smell at all.
Clumps pretty well. Covers odor well. Pricey, but you get what you pay for. Scoop the box daily and there won't be any odor. I use the pan liners in sweater totes and it makes cleanup much easier. The bucket with the handle is the best invention for transporting and stacking cat sand.... ever.
I've used Tidy Cat products for years, changing occasionally to other litter products to test them, yet I always return to Tidy Cat because their product does what the package says (24/7 odor control) and the clumping litter becomes hard like a rock, which makes daily scooping a cinch. What I like the best about Tidy Cat is their economical price.
Overall great product, and I still use it between three litter boxes. The size of the pail really helps me to hold onto it longer than constantly making trips to the store for more litter. When it goes on sale, I try to snatch up a couple. :)
We have 3 cats and go through at large pail about every 2 weeks. Our one cat will ONLY use the litter pan with tidy cats. We've tried other brands and the more expensive 'natural' kinds of litter, but he refuses to use it. We reuse the pails for garbage can and storage of things in our basement like christmas lights and tools. I would just like the pails to be a little bit easier to pour, and some more coupons!
We have 3 cats and are big fans of this litter. It's easy to clean up after the felines and controls odor really well. It's also super affordable, especially when on sale (Target has some great deals with $5 gift cards with purchase). The only small downside is that the litter can be somewhat messy. The small particles stick to kitty feet. This was easily controlled with the addition of a litter mat outside of the boxes.
I started using clumping style litter for my cats last year when we moved to a smaller house. I trusted Tidy Cat so that is the brand I chose. Being money conscience I tried a cheaper brand and added it to the remaining Tidy Cat. The other brand looked like Tidy Cat and seemed to be doing well until the ratio of Tidy Cat to the other brand became less and less. That's when I noticed that the odor was becoming more noticeable even cleaning the box more often. You truly get what you pay for and I will never switch my Tidy Cat for a less expensive brand again.
This litter does exactly what is says - works 24/7! I would never buy anything else!
I HAVE 6 CATS AND CHANGE THE BOXES EVERY WEEK IT IS THE BEST BY FAR CAT LITTER I HAVE EVER PURCHASED AND WILL CONTINUE TO PURCHASE !!
I totally disagree with Cindy & Joyce comments... I have four cats and have been using Tidy cat Litter for years..but since I am getting older now the weight of the container was getting a bit much ..so  I bought the lightweight litter to try as cats are picky I didn't know if they would use it or if it clumped well ( I had a regular Tidy multi cat Litter as a back up) well!! to my surprise they used it just fine (I have three litter box's) only fill one with the lightweight just in case!! all four used the same box!! the Tidy cat lightweight litter is great, it clumps better, less dust ( I should know I'm the one who cleans this house) and it control's the odor,I would recommend this product to anyone with cats.....Thank you for making a great product for owners of cats.  From a Cat owner in Pioneertown, Ca. PS. I am not a employee of Tidy cats in anyway shape or form.
The first and only place I could find this was at Sam's after seeing it all over TV. So I bought the 2 pack they sell - I do wish that Walmart.com would sell it in a 2 pack just to save a few $$ but I love it. The cats did not seem to mind...it does not have a Glade smell (so other reviews about a smell I don't think that correct). I use Arm & Hammer Cat Litter Deo powder too to cut down on the box smell. But I would def recommend this to others!!!
I have purchased Target brand cat litter for years but last year they changed their brand and it was terrible! So I started using Tidy Cat and liked the fact that it controlled order and most importantly it was low in DUST, (one of my cats has allergies). When the new Glade formula came out I had to try it and it was amazing and smelled great! Thank you so much!
I HAVE BEEN BUYING TIDY CAT FOR A LONG TIME AND WOULD LIKE TO KNOW WHY YOU HAVE CHANGED YOUR FORMULA BECAUSE MY CATS HAVE NOTICED THE DIFFERENCE IN THE SMELL OF THE LITTER. SO WHEN I OPEN THE LITTER FOR THE FIRST I LEAVE THE LID OFF TO LET THE SMELL OR FRAGRENCE OUT OF IT. I USED TO USE THE BLUE CAP AND NOW I USE THE RED CAP AND HAVE TO PUSH BACK THE OLD LITTER THEN ADD THE NEW AND COVER IT WITH THE OLD BEFORE MY CATS WOULD USE IT.
I have nine cats with numerous litter boxes. I will only use tidy cat in their boxes. It is great for clumping and takes away the smell. I have tried others and none compares to Tidy Cat.
I have been using this litter for 12 years with every cat I have had. I tried the other brands that claim to be the best but nohe stack up to the greatness of tidy cats. I wouldn't use any other litter ever for my cats. My biggest issue with most cat homes is it smells like a cat is there with this litter you can't even tell a cat lives there the odor is masked so perfectly and that helps with the cleanings as well.
I have always had cats. I have used nearly all the brands of litter out there and Tidy Cats works best in my opinion. It clumps best and stays together best. Then - I accidentally bought the glade kind - and when I poured it in the litter box - I was like, "woah! What's this??" It smelt wonderful. ... and STAYED smelling wonderful. The cats had the best smelling room in the house while I used this! I wanted some more but the store was out when I bought more. Will try again next time.
I have 3 inside cats and 6 foster cats (in my spare garage). Basically, this means I am cleaning, filling, and scooping litter boxes A LOT! I have tried many differnt styles and brands over the years.......but I will only use Tidy Cats Litter because it lasts a long time, it smells fresh for a long time, and when you have to scoop it there is virtually no cloud of dust in the air - like many others have. And....the price of Tidy Cats is very reasonable. Plus, the larger quantity comes in a reusable bucket which is good around the house for other things.
Started using this about 2months now when it started being stocked at my Walmart. I really love the smell when I pour it into the litter boxes very fresh scent. All I buy now instead of the regular tidy cats...
I bought this to just try it out and it's the best litter so far. The smell isn't overwhelming and it lasts a long time.
I have tried almost every litter on the market (wood chips, what was I thinking) and found the Tidy Cats 24/7 Performance to be the best working litter for me. Scooping is just easier because it does clump solid and you don't end up with urine soaked litter still in the box. The odor is so minimal and the litter stays fresher and effective after scooping. I use to have to completely dump out the litter box after a week of using some other brand because it would be smelly but not with the Tidy Cats.
I bought this new litter because I love glade products. So glad I did . We have four cats and you could never tell. This litter smells great from the moment you put it in and stays smelling fresh even if the box gets used .
This is the best cat litter I've found.  It has the least dust and works well with my multiple cat household.  I do buy whatever flavor is on sale.  I don't like the perfume type smell.
I have tow female cats and both of them had litter 30 days apart.so now with tow cats and 7 kittens . I got 5bags 40lbs.each.they were at a great price and they are lasting longer then anything els.clean and no smell...need coupon for food and more litter
I will not use any other brand. I use the Instant Action formula, I don't have the smell that you can get with having 2 cats using one litter box! This is a great product, please, please, please do change anything about it!!
I don't use any other litter.  This is the best clumping litter I've tried and the smell is controlled so I don't have to change out the litter all the time.  I scoop and add a little more litter most of the time making cleaning up after my cat a breeze.
I have been buying Tidy cats for many years, and I still love it as much as I did from my first purchase. The smell is great, it scoops so easy, and the cats really like it too.
I have 3 cats and I had switched to another brand the said it was the best in odor control. Well, I had always used Tidy Cats and I switched just to see.... what a shocker this other liter, name brand as well, was horrible!! I had to clean kitty box out several times a day to keep up with the odor and it was not very good at clumping. Sorry, Tidy Cats, I will never doubt you again! In addition, this new Glade tough odor... LOVE IT!!!! Clumps great and no smell, even if I forget to clean the box of a day!! Only down side is, my cats track it all over, but a small price to pay for no odor, in an apartment!!
I have purchased this same cat litter in the store many times. This is so convenient to have the heavy boxes delivered right to my doorstep. Beats lifting them in the cart, out of the cart, back in the cart, back out of the cart,and then lugging them into the house. Arrived in perfect condition. Will definitely purchase this product online in the future.
Been using Tidy cats litter for 15 years for my 6 cats. never had a problem with the product and it works wonderful. With prices going up I'll wait till it's on sale and grab 6 of them. Always been a solid product, which you can't say about alot of products out there today.
Tidy Cat help me to be a happy cat owner. Price is reasonable and it does the job. Clumping action is what I want and that is just what Tidy Cat gives me! I have tried other cat litters, but bar none Tidy Cat is absolutely the BEST!
I have 5 kitties and use this is all the kitties' littler boxes. It does a decent job of controlling odor, but it seems the particles are finer, littler is more easily tracked from the litter box and creates more dust than it used to do. Less dust would be wonderful and well as less tracking. And, it's gotten to be a little expensive; less expensive would also be wonderful, especially since I have 5 kitties and usually buy this in 40# quanitites.
We switched brands over 2 years ago and haven't looked back. Tidy Cats does an amazing job in our house for our 2 cats. They are also the only ones that consistently offer coupon savings. We love TIDY CATS!
I will highly recommend Tidy cats to all the cats parents ,if you have cats you should have Tidy cats performance ,my cats love it so do I .In 6 years we did try only two three times other brands but all of them are really don't match the tidy brands ,once you use it you will never buy anything else .Excellent  product .
I have tried other litter in the past and have totally despised them. Tidy Cats litter with the red lid is the best hands down. It clumps well, it's easy to scoop, I love it, and my 6 little fur-kitty's love it too. Thank you for being the best!
I love that it is not an overwhelming scent, as some of my cats don't like that, but all seem to love this product and I find the odor control is excellent. it is often on sale and has coupons which make it a good value.
I have used this product for years and am very pleased with it, especially since it doesn't cause hardly any dust. However, I have quite a few cats and would love to try the clumping but the cost is too high.
we have 8 cats,and have tried other litters when we can't find our..I don't like any other litter,they don't control odor as well and are not as easy to clean out of the boxes as well..this is our pick
We have 6 cats (and a Labrador Retriever), so cleaning litter boxes is a big deal for us.  We have tried store brands, bargain brands and other name brands, but they don't clump well and sure don't contain odors. Why abandon a good thing?  We always come back to Tidy Cat.  And I always check the paper for coupons and stock up!
I had a coupon so I tried TIDY CATS... I have 4 cats and usually use Arm & Hammer. My cats like it.. I just wish there were more coupons offered - litter can be so expensive.. especially when you have 4 CATS and have to refill so often. But the moral of the story is - Highly recommend!! :)
i like the no fragrance for my cats. tried other brands through the years and yours is the best. please send me a coupon.
I tried this out a couple weeks ago and it's the best odor fighting litter.  Cleaning the litter boxes isn't gag inducing anymore!
We have 10 litter boxes and are very careful to keep them all clean. About six weeks ago we noticed the new Tidy Cats with Glade at our local PetSmart store. We have used Tidy Cats for well over ten years. We are so impressed with this new litter we have since purchased twice more. It does a superior job controlling odor. We purchase twice a month, about 80 # each time so this is a significant, ongoing purchase for us that we will continue to buy!
I have 2 cats and this works great. I'm always buying it when it's on sale so I always have some on hand.
I have not tried this new Tidy Cat formula of cat litter but I am sure it will work great. I buy Tidy Cat Scoopable Litter from time to time and I certainly will try this one. I will give this product a 4 star review because I'm sure it will stand up to the Tidy Cat products.
This is the best for your cat litter boxes
I switched to this from the clumping and it is great. With 3 large indoor cats, the cost of litter was getting high, but with the switch it has been so worth it. Thank you!
Strangley enough, no one has ever professionally rated Cat Litter - not even Consumer Reports. After digging around for ages this is what I have discoevered. Your "Top Rated" cat litter is going to be some never-heard-of brand organically made that costs $50 for a handful of the stuff. We are not interested in that stuff. Tidy Cat and Fresh Step litters are the best rated all around for 1 Dust, 2 Scoopability, 3 Odor Control, 4 Price. Both rank so high amongst users, they really stand out from the rest. I like Tidy Cat for its LOW DUST, easy plastic container opposed to the carboard box and the fact that it is almost always deliverable by online stores. As for odor control - Fresh Step is more personally pleasing but Tidy Cat does have decent odor control. Though I have never used it, I understand that Sam's Club brand litter is quite superior but hard to find. Personally, I believe Menards Master Paws Scoopable Cat Litter is THE best, unfortunantly you can only find it at Menards and Menards does NOT deliver this item - store pick up only. The complete inconvienance of these DAY HIKES, often unstocked shelves, and long lines makes these 'superior' litters a LOT less unattractive to users Tidy Cat, with it's low cost, easy plastic contianer, high ratings across the board, deliverability, and availability --- makes Tidy Cat an all around BEST BUY.
I fought for about a year to figure out why my cat would sometimes use the area just outside the box instead of inside the box. Then I realized she would only totally go inside the box if I used Tidy Cat Scoopable Litter. So whenever I'm tempted to try something new or cheaper, I remember Sassy only likes Tidy Cat!!!
I got this the first time from SAM's club, I am glad I did, this is the best one so far out of the Tidy CAT litters. I have 3 cats (had 4) all using 1 box that is scooped several times a day, but there is never an odor when you come home, not like there used to be before changing to the glade tidy cat litter. I will never change litter again.
I have always used the Tidy Cat clumping litters in my home as I run a foster care program for All God's Creatures. I tried other litters or had them donated to me and I found that some turned to mud in the litter box, others did not clump and stay together. I just recently started using the Tidy Cats Glade Tough Odor and I am recommending it to everyone I know. When asked by adopters what litter I use or I feel is the best, I always recommend the Tidy Cat brands.
I use the buckets, easy for this 61 yr. old man to handle. This product allows adequate clumping for multiple cats. I've tried others, but would not use anything else.
I decided to try this formula since the store was out of the "small spaces", and i've been very happy with it, so much so that i went back and bought 4 more of the large buckets.
I have an automatic litter box. Tidy Cats is the best clumping and best odor killing brand by far for my cats. We were ALL very unhappy when I tried any other brand. We all have made our choice..Tidy Cats!
I have used Tidy Cats for many, many years. Once or twice I have tried a store brand or a different brand. Always came back to Tidy Cats. I wouldn't use anything else. We have three litter boxes.
I have been using Tidy Cats for about 20 years now....have tried other products when on sale...but always to back to Tidy Cats red.  Hands down the best!
I buy this ltter no matter if it is on sale or not, I hve used other litters this one is the very best!!!!
my husband and i are very happy with this product because its the only kind of litter our cat likes we tried other kind of litter in the past bust she refused the litter box so we went back to tiddy cat
I have two cats that pretty much have a waste output of four. I've tried so many different brands in an effort to save a couple bucks. That effort usually ends up wasting money on inferior litters and going back to Tidy Cats. Bottom line is, you get what you pay for-Tidy Cats is worth every penny!
it was a gift and bought it on my own and I would buy it again. Great value, ordor control, only have to change litter once a week with the bags I got and this litter.
This is a nicely clumping and smelling cat litter that I have used for a long time. It is my favorite and my cat seems to like it too.
Regardless of my opinion of the dust levels, their is rarely a smell left behind unless one of the cats has just used the box or it wasn't changed recently enough. On a fun note, I tried switching once to a store brand and both cats pooped on the floor. They made their preference well known!
I bought this and am able to scoop out the used litter daily and keep the rest of the litter in the pan for up to 2 weeks and it still smells as if it was just put in there that day! I totally love this product! Its amazing!
I've tried other brands, but Tidy is the only one that's proven to work. Can't smell a thing & I've one litter box near the front door!
Bought this the first time over a year ago. Both are indoor/outdoor cats, but the youngest has decided she likes the indoor best. Poops and pees ALOT!!!!. Never a smell in the laundry room. Have tried other brands but do not perform like Tidy Cat.
Have been using for months now.  The smell is amazing it kills the cat odors when your scooping the box! I have recommended this to my family and friends!
I have four cats of different varieties and after purchasing the Tidy Cats with Glade it has been a whole different experience for us and the cats. The added scent keeps the box and room smelling fresh. This is a great product!
My cat goes in the morning and late at night.  The urine clumps very nicely and there is no smell at all.  I have tried other Tidy Cat products but this one really does the job for my cat and it is so easy to clean up.
We/ve been buying this type of litter for a long time and no one who comes into our house would ever suspect we have two cats. I scoop it once a day and wash the box thoroughly and replace all the litter every five to six weeks. We have two happy cats and a happy me because my house doesn't smell like cat litter.
I bought this a while back and still prefer the original Blue label product. I don't like how this smells. Although I do love the Glade products too. I just don't like them together.
I bought this cat liter last week and it smell fresh all week long.
Bought this litter and surprised that it absorbs the smell quickly. It also is very easy to clean
I absolutely love this letter...and so does my cat. Great smell, low tracking...it's got it all. 
I have been using this product forever, Its great!! I have to adult cats, big boys and you can not tell I have any cats because there is no smell at all. Why dont you ever offer coupons anymore? My only complaint!!
We have 4 cats that range in age from 6 months to 13 years and with the age range comes a lot of bad smells. We keep all our litter boxes in one room and it was just over powering before I tried this product. We no longer have the "cat box" smell but a fresh clean smell that even cover the stinkiest box orders!
I've been using this for years.  I love it because it doesn't leave a trail of dust and clumps really well as compared to other brands I have used.  It really absorbs the smell, and best of all the litter doesn't get stuck in my cat's paw pads to be trailed around the house.  I also use the 24/7 and both work great!
I have 4 cats. As much as I try to keep the boxes clean, the house always smells like "cat." I've only purchased one of the tubs of the Tidy Cat with Glade, but I love it. My mom came over to my house today and commented that for the first time in years, the house doesn't smell like "cat." I like the fragrance and the clumping power. I'll definitely buy this again.
I have 3 cats in a small house and I love this huge tub of litter. It lasts a long time, it's economical, controls the smell, and when I change out the boxes, there's not as much dust as with other litters,
I am just so pleased that I could get it on line for the same price that I paid for it at the store and get it delivered to my front door. The FedEx man even set it inside my door for me. I am a senior and on a very tight budget!
I currently have 5 cats and have been using this style of liter for years now and I think it works pretty good. I do wish there were more coupons for this as I tend to switch to the new Arm & Hammer, Double Duty for a better price or when coupons are available and the cats don't seem to mind it.
2 cats, 3 boxes...love this stuff! is comparable to other brands price wise and can always find on sale at PetSmart! 
Easy to use and packaged well...and good price is one has a coupon.
I have tried some of the other Cat Litters but always come back to Tidy Cats. For the price and quality Tidy Cats works the best.
best litter we bought no oders clumps great has a good price
I have gone through a lot of different brands and kinds of litter for my cats and this is better than the others I have had to use since my favorite is no longer available. There is little to no dust, makes a hard clump and does control the odors very well. I have 15 cats and it is important to keep them clean and the house nice. This is doing its job. Some litters actually created odor! This is good and the containers can be reused for other storage.( not food)
I compare when I shop, sometimes to the point of using a calculator to determine the best value, and I've yet to find a better litter for the price. I typically buy this in the 40# bucket, which is usually the lowest price per pound, plus I get a great bucket! I've been using this product for years, and I don't think one can go wrong buying and using "Tidy Cats."
I was surprised to read some of the recent reviews about the urine not clumping well. Unless my PetSmart just hasn't gotten new shipments yet, mone still seems to be clumping as well as always. My male cat will scratch at the litter to the point where he can break up clumps, but for the most part they seem to stay intact. My cats definitely like it better than other brands though, and I think the dust factor is much lower than most.
I have been using Tidy Cats clumping litter for over a year. My cats and I love the new Glade fragrance. I have 12 cats, and with regular scooping there is very little odor. My only problem is that it does not go on sale very often. It is expensive.
All the Tidy Cats products are great because they have low dust. I love the new Glade scented Tidy Cat product. It has better odor control than the other Tidy Cat Products and remains fresh until the next change of litter.
I prefer and depend on the Tidy Cat 24/7, when I had two cats and now that I have one. I am glad the dust has reduced. I have tried others, and switched back immediately. 
I've used this litter for several years now. The clumping action makes it so easy to keep the litter box clean and the instant odor control works great!! I love it!!! My cat loves it!!! Couldn't be any better!!!
I have tried several different brands over the years. Tidy Cat is the best I have found. The Glade scent is good at keeping the odors down with 5 cats using it. Also not as much dust is kicked up when used or cleaned.
We've been using Tidy Cat for years and we love it!  I'm very grateful that the perfumes used aren't too strong, otherwise I'd have to change products as I have an extreme sensitivity to them.  Thank you, Tidy cat!
With 21 cats and 11 litter boxes, I found this to be the best of the Tidy Cat litter family. My cats had no problem using it, and the Glade scent isn't overpowering. Only wish this and the other 2 types of Tidy in the 35lb buckets were less dusty...again with 11 litter boxes, there's a lot of digging going on in my place!
As this is a Tidy Cat clumping product, I love it equally as much as the Instant Action version. I will buy it whenever it is on sale, I have a coupon for it, or is cheaper than other brands. Tidy Cat is my favorite brand.
I am a sphynx breeder (hairless cats) and use A LOT of litter. I have tried every conceivable type of litter out there, including corn, wheat, recycled-newspaper, crystals, non-clumping, clumping, self-scooping...you name it, I've tried it. I always come back to Tidy Cats and recommend all my buyers use it too. It out-performs all other brands I've tried. My cats love it too. Buy with confidence.
Love this litter I'm a 2nd generation user and I think this is the best stuff 3 cats no problem!
I have several cats and i buy this cat litter all the time.  I love the easy to carry handle, the screw top lid, the clumping ability and odor control.  Now, if i could just get all the cats to cover up their "deposits" when they use the box!!
Have tried other brands and just cannot get the same results. Other brands have more dust, less clump, and do not control odor as long. Found my way back and plan to stay with you!!
I used to use Arm and Hammer, but it did not keep the odors at bay.  With Tidy Cats for Multiple Cats, I don't worry about that.  There is absolutely no odor.  I have not found anything better.  LOVE IT!!!
excellent with odor control. Not too dusty. would recommend
I have 6 cats.....5 are rescue.....I love this product!!!! Zero odor
This litter has great clumping which makes litter clean up so much easier. Also, there is little or no dust with this....I found that other popular name brand products leave a dust residue in the air which is very unpleasant.  Wish is had a bit more odor killing punch, but overall, a very good product...the one I purchase most often.
I have 5 cats and use Tidy Cats 24/7 in three litter pans and find it still to be the best available. As long as i keep up with the scooping, I do not experience any oder problems. There is also very little dust. I am very happy with your product and it's made my job a lot easier.
This litter has been a staple in my multi-cat home. There is NO odor. You wouldn't know cats are in the house. It is slightly dusty, but most of the litters I've tried are.
I have tried the other types of TC and this seems to work the best for my 4 cats. Clumps really well and keeps the odor down. I would also add that I would like more coupons.
We have a small cat rescue and have used MANY different litters over the yrs. This by far is the best we've ever used and will continue to do so. I wish there were more coupons for it though!!!! :)
I have tried other litters that are cheaper or are supposed to work better and I always come back to Tidy Cats because it works the best. It makes clean up easy and quick.
I used Tidy Cat years ago, it worked good so never thought about using anything else. My cat passed on so no longer needed litter. Now years later, I have 1 adult cat and two new babies. Without giving consideration to quality I just purchased what was cheaper. Without saying, I'm back to Tidy Cat Instant Action Clumping, the only thing that would be any better would be Nothing!
I have three cats that are pooping machines. Tidy Cats (Instant Action, Multiple Cats) is the ONLY litter that works in my household. I have purchased other brands on sale to try them out and nothing stands up to or even compares to Tidy Cats!
I was surprised how well it worked that I went back to buy more!
I bought this product in the hopes it would control order better, I work from home and the litter box is in my office, well need I say more. IT WORKS!
I love this litter and I'm glad I was one of the testers you chose to test it.  It is finally in my area and I bought some today, but I am very disappointed that it is almost double the price of your other products for the same size jug.  Worth it?  Probably, because last week I bought the jug of Tidy Cats Active litter, and I absolutely hate it.  So very glad when I went back today, LightWeight was available!!!!  :) :) :)
I changed from World's Best to Tidy Cats because of the cost, as I have 4 cats. Tidy Cats works fairly well. My only real problem is when my cat kicks it out after using the restroom. That litter goes everywhere and its a pain to vacuum.
The two pack is much more cost effective and the product works great.
I have been buying Tidy Cat for a long time. I have had multiple cats several times and it works great. Its one of the litters my cat doesn't mind using. have used other brands and she literally snubs her nose at it
Great for mult-cat households. I have 4 and it works great on the odour issues.. My only beef is it tracks very badly compared to Arm and Hammer.
Your LightWeight litter is fantastic!!   The only problem I have is your price!!  Why is it $5.00 more than the regular Tidy Cats formulas?  Also, I haven't seen one coupon in my area!!
what can I say but what a great product,my cats will only use.
We have multiple cats, and the odor is reduced a great deal. When we have tried other litters, and my cats did not like going into the litter box.
This is the best out there. I have 2 cats and you can't even tell. It has great clumping action.
I have tried them all... This is the best clumping litter. The fresh long lasting scent is exceptional.
I have used Tidy Cats for years now & I've tried all the varieties at one time or another.  By far, this is OUTSTANDING!!!!  I have three cats, so I generally scoop litter every day.  I was amazed at how even after a week of scooping, the Glade scent was still as fresh as the first day in the litter box!!!  Purina, you have a winner here!!!  I am thrilled with this one!!!
we buy it all the time. it does what it states on the label.
I have a multiple cat house and appreciate its value and results.
I have two very large cats, and they sometimes "overhang" the sides of the boxes, so very quick clumping is important to me.  This is the best product I've found.
After moving back to the very humid northern florida I had to find a new clumping cat litter.  After several different types I tried the 24/7 performance. Now we have clumping litter again.
Mine clumps fine.. I've never had a problem, it is the only litter my cats like and will use.
I have 7 cats and 5 litter boxes, which I scoop twice a day. I have tried other brands, and this is by far the best I have found. Clumping is very important, and this does not disappoint!!
I have been using this product for years and have been generally happy. Occasionally find clumps break up too easily when scooping leaving the dirty litter in box.
I switched to tidy cat years ago and have never wanted to use anything else since
I have been buying Tidy Cat clumping litter for as long as it has been available.
I have been using Tidy Cats for about 8 years now and would not even consider changing brands!
This is the only litter that my two cats will use. If I change the litter at all they start using the bathroom on the stairs of the litter box.
Twelve brands of cat litter were used in the program in addition to an empty litter box. The program lasted a total of 10 weeks. Test cats ranged from one to 12 years of age.   As a result of the cat litter test, every cat in the test found a litter they would use, and every cat was adopted. Cat Depot switched from traditional clay litter to Tidy Cat, the number one cat litter preferred by our finickiest cats. We  sell Tidy Cat in our store, and encourage adopters not to change our cat's litter.
I have 3 older cats and they are pretty picky each has its own litter box.. they like this tidy cat the best and I have tried them all. Thanks tidy cat for making my cats and me happier!
I have been buying this litter for years. This is the best litter ever!
I have been using this product for years in my multicast household. Went throu a period of trying other products and found my first choice was the best. Tidy Cats 24/7 is the choice for me!
This litter is the best! I've tried so many over the years, but this one is by far our FAV!! MEOW~~
I tried the glad and don't like it . This is the best
I buy this every month and I'm happy with tidy cat.
We have tried the others but prefer this the best. and Precious does too.
This is a great product...always works well and keeps the odor to a minimum!  I have even bought other brands (when they go on sale-just to compare) and NOTHING wins over Tidy Cat.  This is the best litter out there!!
This works so well i find i cannot scoop out the soiled litter! The litter forms into such a hard ball that it sticks to the box and it doesn't bung.Never in my life did i ever think i wouldn't be able to use a litter because it worked too well!I switched to other Tidy Cat litter which works just as well but at least i can scoop.But see for yourself
I love the glade one. I am trying the 24/7. This is my first kitten in almost 20 years and I found him in my garden July and he was very I'll. He is 5 months old and healthy. I tried fresh step and it did not do what Tidy Cats has done. I was told by many to use it. Buttercup and I love it. I will be trying the lightweight next time.
We have six indoor cats and thought we would never be able to use the clumping litter due to cost....then we tried it! Have never been happier with the performance!
I prefer the Tidy Cats Litter with the blue lid, but this one is in second running to it~ I would recommend this if you can't get the blue lid pail of Tidy cats litter. I only purchase Tidy Cats litter because it is the only one that controls odor and keeps my cats from UTI's.
I got tired of lugging these home in the 100 degree weather, so I ordered a couple of them to qualify for FREE shipping. They arrived just fine and no hassel of carting them through the store, waiting in line, and loading/unloading from the car. Note: I tried ordering the smaller jugs of the same product, but they "exploaded" in the boxes they were shipped in so had to refuse delivery. Order the bigger, sturdier, containers.
Absolutely love the quality of this product for eliminating litter box odor. Just got two kittens in July, 2013 (born in February, I think) and they both began using this litter box system without a hitch; guessing that is the case because this was their first experience with a litter box system. Pellets definitely a little pricey and replacing the pad should be maintained to control the odor but worth the cost. Kittens do like to play with the individual pellets. Don't know if they are toxic but definitely an oral/dental concern. Hopefully they will outgrow this behavior. Vet recommended this pellet type litter when kittens were spayed/neutered, particularly for males. Coupons available online at Tidy Cats for the Breeze litter system. Walmart price matched when I found an advertised price online for less + used the coupon. I suggest ordering pellets and pads online for store pickup. Thanks Walmart!
I've used this product for 10+ years and I can never smell any cat odor from the litter box. I have 3 cats and it has always worked well.
I always look for the blue lid. This one works best or my cat and my house. I have a persian and this litter does not make his fur smell.
ive used all the tidy cats and this by far is the best! completely knocks out that ammonia smell. love the smell of the litter too! ud never know I had a catbox with this litter!
Visited my son and he was using Tidy Cats with Glade.Loved how it worked,smelled and controlled odor.Long time user of another litter and switched as soon as I came home.Love it!!!!
I live in a small apartment and have been struggling with finding a litter that better masks the smell of the litter box.  And FINALLY I find that in the Glade solutions! I thought I would never find a litter that worked! Hallelu!
With three inside cats and two spare(sometimes outside) cats, we use tons of litter. Tidy Cats is our choice for all. Friends often comment on the fact that there is never a "cat" smell in the house. Annie, Izzie, Lucy, Callie and Ms. Midgeons all say thanks to a great product.
Both of my cats love Tidy Cat clumping formula, as well as my husband and I. We've tried others - didn't like them because of perfumie smell. Will not use any other brands. Thanks Tidy Cat!
I have loved Tidy Cats for my cat's litter box, and the addition of Glade is just a bonus. I have 2 cats, but you wouldn't know it by the smell!
I have used Tidy Cats for 14+ years. I try to clean out the litter box on a daily basis...but we all know what happens when we get busy. I have noticed that Tidy Cats Glade Tough Solutions keeps its fresh smell...even if it takes me a couple of days to clean up! The clumping seems to be as good as regular Tidy Cats, and the 'dust' has been reduced greatly.  I am very pleased with this product!
The cat box is in a high traffic area of our house. I use the Instant Action Scoop. I don't need to worry that my guest will smelling the cat box. The cats don't have the smell on them like they did when I used another brand. The litter doesn't seem to get tracked around as much ether. You should try this litter.
Only litter I have found that controls the odor of my smelly cat. I have three cats total and have never had guest complain of litter box smell. 
I love that it doesn't smell like litter..and saves me sprinkling carpet smells all around the box. Now if only it came in summery or holiday smells..
The best choice I made. No more strong urine smells!!!!!!
I like this one for the way it smells. I've always been a fan of tidy cat and now they have one that gives a nice scent without it irritating my cat's skin. He is very sensitive to litters and tidy cat is the only litter that I will use. Smells great.
this litter is the best litter available for clumping and hiding oders. We have many cats and you need a product to assist you in keeping your house smelling clean.
I recently tried the Tidy Cats with Glade. This product is awesome. Smells great and works hides the odors.
I bought one bucket of this variety because the red lidded and blue lidded litters didn't control odors very well. My cats adapted to the scent right away. It is a powerful scent when you first portion it out to the litter box but really works to control the urine and feces smell. Thank you - I don't sneeze at this odor.
I bought this a couple weeks ago to try it out, and it works wonders for my cats. The glade leaves a fresh smell no matter what they leave behind. I would highly suggest this litter if you have multiple cats.
I got this last month and my cats love it . it leaves my den smelling good no one would know I have cats I have used the other tidy cat litter but this is the best one yet
I have liked all tidy cat clumping, but I have to agree that the blue lid tidy cat seems to have changed. It doesn't clump, just stays "muddy". I clean the cat box at least 3 times a day and have enough litter, almost changed brands. My 4 were going other places if I didn't. Now you don't smell the cat box, love it.
The new Glade Tidy Cat Litter is the best! My house has never smelled better, and I have 9 cats!
In the summer not so much litter is needed as all the cats go outside. Winter proves to be far different. 24/7 keeps the laundry room smelling clean and fresh and for me it is very easy clean up!!!!!
My husband and I just started using this litter and it has been great. The odor is significantly less, but it doesn't have that strong kitty litter smell either. We are very happy with it and so are our 2 kitties :)
We bought this at Sam's Club because they quit selling the non-scooping kind. We were pleasantly and refreshingly surprised. It smells better than all the rest and it clumps better than your other "clumpers". Due to finances, we bought the other Instant Action scoop without Glade. It just doesn't clump fast nor holds together as well as with Glade. We love it!!! And our 2 cats don't mind either! 
My male cat's urine has a very strong smell to it- he would go in there and we could smell it shortly after.  Tidy Cats products really helped- BUT Tidy Cats with Glade....solved the problem completely!!  My husband will even change the box now! 
Have a very small apartment so the littler box lives in the bedroom. I have to scoop often since kitty has a kidney issue, but you would never know it was there at all since it absorbs all odors and smells great!
Tidy cats litter works great absorbing  and allowing the cat to easily cover there mess and the litter dispels the odor quickly. There is very little dust from this litter and my cats like this litter over other brands that have a perfume smell or bigger grains of clay
I LOVE Tidy cat! I use the red lid instead of the blue. The red is for long lasting odor control, which I find I need more then just right after they use it. I only have 2 cats but it sure does work great for me and my place doesn't smell like I have cats! WooHoo! A BIG plus for me! =)
I have been using this for about 8 months and it is the best litter I have ever purchased. I love the clumping action and the fact that it covers the odor so that I don't have to smell my two girls' business! Thanks so much for making such great products.
This litter is the BEST litter I have ever used hands down! It has a light, pleasant scent and even though we have 3 cats, our house doesn't smell like it. This is the only litter I will buy and I highly recommend this product.
I recently bought several tubs of this for my 5 cats.  It really helps to keep the smell down, better than anything I have ever tried.  I'm actually trying to use up my Tidy Cats 24/7 now so I can get "rid" of it sooner and will buy this new litter only from now on.  I like it that much.  
Tidy Cats with Glade is just what I am looking for in my "house of cats"! I used this product on Thurs., 8-15-13, for the first time. I cleaned and filled two litter boxes and traveled out of state over night. Frankly, I dreaded opening my door to the litter boxes' smell created by my four cats while I was away. Wow!! Was I surprised to NOT enter a dump-smelly house. Instead, I entered a nondump smelling home. Tidy Cats with Glade is an answer to my nose, my cats, and my peace of mind. I am a permanent cat Mother who will purchase your product. Thank you!!!!
I bought this week and it does what it says at first i wasnt sure but i figured anything was better than what i was smelling. But the clumps are tight like it says the smell isnt offensive and im not getting the dust in my nose or mouth i live in an apartment and when i came home i didnt smell the box when i came in. I scoop once aday before work and its not a daunghting task anymore, i mean im not excited about the litter scooping but im not scared or put it off because of the offensive ammonia smell or cat poo odor, if you scoop it right you get all the urine out and poo and left behind is useable litter and you just add more as you go. Great stuff im happy!
I have been using this litter for years in a home with 3 cats.  Allows me to clean the litter pans quickly and easily.  Great product with a great price.  
I've been buying this litter for some time and I think it works very well for my two cats and me. There's virtually no cat odor, the litter itself has a nice scent. It is kind of dusty but the clumping ability is good and it's reasonably priced.
I have 2 full grown kitties and this litter works better than any litter in its price range!!
Love it! The price is good, the product is great, & we love the buckets! reuse for all kinds of things.
It's the most reasonable priced cat litter out there making it cost effective. I really like the scoopable/ clumping factor. Plus the idea of coming up with fragrant litter is easy on the nose..
I have tried all of the Tidy Cat litters and I always come back to this one. It works well and my cat seems to like it, too.
I was happy to be able to order this via walmart.com. I live overseas and the availability of cat litter is marginal. I am happy with the litter as well as the shipping! thanks!
Love the clumping thing. Thus Scoops with ease. Friends Ask "Do You Really Own Two Cats ?" And Received an additional discount at store pick up, due to store price drop
Have used the more expensive Power Blend in the past with my 5 cats. Was pleasantly surprised that is new Dual Power works even better and costs less.
Great products, Easy to work with, cats love it and I love it.
I bought this for the first time and I love it. Having 2 kitties that are very particular about their litter they love it!
I have 9 cats that's right NINE cats!! And you would never know it with our use of the Tidy Cat Scoop for multiple cats. We absolutely love the product. We scoop out all our 6 cat boxes 3 times a day and we are glad that Tidy Cat has such a wonderful product to help keep our cats happy and our human noses happy too :) Thanks for the wonderful product !
I love it. Seems to keep the odor down and my kitties don't mind the change
I have 4 full grown cats.  I have a huge liter box that takes an entire 27 lbs jug to fill every week.  I love my cats and they don't appreciate a dirty liter box.  Tidy helps me keep it clean. 
I like this product as far as scent.  The clumping is ok, still not hard enough for most of the urine.  It also has a great deal of dust when first filling the box.
I love the Instant Action litter the most. I have four litter boxes in a one bedroom apartment and there is no odor what so ever. Being a good cat mommy helps when scooping as soon as possible. But even when i don't get the chance, the odor is controlled right away.
I purchase what she likes, and she loves Tidy Cats! It doesn't stick to her feet like other brands and makes cleanup easy.
Tidy Cats Instant Action is the ONLY cat litter I use in my home. Sure I've tried others and they CANNOT compare to Tidy Cat. I love to hear from people that come into my home and say they didn't know I had cats - there is no odor! Makes this human mom proud.
My 3 cats love this litter - I swap around and try any new tidy cat litter that comes out because I know I'll love it.
I absolutely love this product! I have tried every kind of tidy cat litter, so of course when this one came out I had to try it as well.
My Cats have been using Tidy Cats Clumping litter for a very long time. I've tried other brands but my cats wouldn't use the other brands. We are pretty happy with it the only thing I wish could be fixed is that it is Still a dusty litter. I can't have it in any of the bedrooms due to the dustiness. Other than that we are happy!
Love it! Does a great job, little bit on the expensive side!
Use this product all of the time and love it! Would highly recommend!
I love this product for my 2 adult cats,but wonder why stores charge more for it?
My current cat really prefers Tidy Cat, and so do I! It does a great job controlling odors. What I'd really like to see from the Purina company, though, is less reliance on the big plastic pails. What a waste of a non-renewable natural resource!
I have been using Tidy Cats liter for years, I like it best of any other brands.  There is not so much dust and clumping is great.  I'm a true cat lover since I have 3 indoor cats .
We love Tidy Cats because it clumps great and there is no odor! We've tried several other brands but nothing works like Tidy Cats!
I have not found a better litter... My cats won't use anything else! We love it! It has a few set backs but the pros far outweigh the cons!
I love this litter, while I only have one indoor kitty-this is by far her favorite litter. It clumps quickly and hides almost all of the odor! It is great in my small apartment. I also love that it comes in a handled jug that is easy to pour from.
I have three cats and use lots of Tidy Cat. I don't find it dusty as others mention.
No other cat litter will ever enter my house. My cats and I absolutely love the Tidy Cats Glade clumping litter. It's now a pleasure to clean up the "meatballs" left behind in the litter box.
I have a housefull of cats of all ages from elder seniors to 2 years of age. I find that the buckets with the blue label of 24/7 works best for my large litter boxes. It is to be more dust free than Fresh Step and lasts longer as far as odor control is concerned.
We have 10 cats; 2 with serious allergies and Tidy Cats has minimal dust when pouring and scooping than most of the other brands and at a cost we can afford. Plus, it clumps better.
There have, always, been cats in the house and none have ever not taken to using the boxes. Only issue is the dust that builds up in the room where the boxes are located. May try one of the other Tidy Cats products.
I have tried other cat litters and well they make my house stink. I've used tidy cats for 11 yrs. I LOVE IT!!!
Grabbed this product by accident while I was stocking up on litter for our 4 male cats and 4 foster kittens. I LOVE, LOVE, LOVE this product. I could scoop thru the litter and still breathe at the same time. How can I get coupons for this?
I've been using Tidy Cat Litter for quite some time. At 1 point in time, I had 11 cats and 2 litter boxes and you couldn't even tell that we had so many using the litter boxes. I only have to clean the boxes twice per day and I only have to change the litter once a week.
I only purchase the Tidy Cats Instant Action. It works great and has a pleasant clean scent.
I bought this last month and can wait to buy it again he is no odor from my cats litter at all and easy clean up
I have tried many products and so far the 24/7 clumping litter has the best results for controlling odor and making clean up easier in my multi-cat household. This specific formula is also the only one of the products that does not have a scent that triggers my asthma.
Very happy with this scoop litter. Have two large male cats who share litter box. Very good odor control.
Have bought this for year recently it seems hard to clean the litter pan of the clumps but have not given up yet since we do have 2 cats.
My caretakers give me Tidy Cat so I can do my part to keep our house clean. I leave the box relived and without clumps between my claws. And best of all, I don't have a paper trail like that dog has when he uses toilet paper.
Tidy Cats clumping litter is a must for our house.  We have four indoor only cats, and it's the only litter that we've tried that keeps the house odor free.  I decided to try the new Glade litter, and it works great.  The scent is light and pleasant, not over powering, and it does a good job like the other varieties.  Tidy Cats litter is the hardest clumping litter that we've tried, and we've tried all the other main brands.  
I have 4 cats..18, 5, 4, 2...Multi Cat household indeed. I read a review for Ever Green cat litter. I tried it. YUK..right back to Tidy Cat. Why mess a product tried and try?? Coupons.. Never find any of yours however.
I've tried many other litter brands for my cats (I have 2 cats). I even tried the new Tidy Cats Light Weight Litter. I have to say my preference is the Tidy Cats® Instant Action - Clumping Cat Litter. Great odor control which is important when you have two cats!
I have tried so many litters that I had resigned to the odor never being absorbed. Then, my daughter brought me some of her Tidy Cats and now I never want anything else. Too bad I don't have a printer to get your coupons.
My cats like clumping litter, but now I mix this with a lighter product
We have tried different clumpable cat litter and Tidy Cat Instant Action works best with our muticat household.
I just bought a pail of this last month and the Glade scent is a wonderful addition to an already great product. 
Even on tough odor...its great! Clumps nicely so its not messy... Its the ONLY litter we buy!
I have tried many other brands but this is the only one that works for my cats. I can even skip a day and not have to worry with odor. With 3 cats ( I used to have 7), it works the best for easy scooping and odor control.
My cat, Kiki, has asthma (so does Mommy a little) and bladder issues. I've tried several scented litters but she has suffered and so have I. This litter is wonderful! It keeps the odor down but it doens't have a heavy scent so neither of us are suffering. Great product!
I wouldn't use anything else. GREAT PRODUCT would def recommend!
I have been purchasing this brand since I took this cat in and find it be great.
I tried this as soon as it came out. I have multiple cats and works very well with odor control. Tidy Cat Clumping litter is the only brand I will use.
Tried this out last month and I do like it. We have 4 cats and it has been great. Only problem is not all stores are carrying it so having a hard time finding it.
The odor control works great! Would recommend to everyone!
I have 10 cats so I need a great litter. Have used it for years, but would like to see it more available in the boxes.
Amazing litter, controls odor the best of any other kind I've tried. the cats switched without any problems. I was worried they might reject it with the glade. clumps great and easy to scoop, where as other clumping litters stuck to the pan.
I have tried literally every litter on the market. I have 8 cats and this litter definitely works best for multi cats.
easy to work with, lasts longer and my cats are happy...
in our home with our clodder of kitties we need as much scent reduction as we can get tried this the week it came out and buy it every week now !!!
Love this litter, bought it for the first time and will keep on using it . Excellent  clumping, good odor control and little to no dust or tracking. I have 4 cats so that being said it is the best.
The new Glad scent last a long time and isn't overpowering. I have used Tidy Cats for many years, and now prefer this one over the others. They have also improved the clumping ability of their product. I own 4 cats, so I always get the 35 lb container. The Glade Tough odor litter has the gray lid, so it's easy to distinguish from their other types. Give it a try, you won't be disappointed!
I buy Tidy Cats 24/7 Clumping every time it's on sale. I love it. It's easy to clean up and very good at keeping odors away.
BETWEEN MY SON, NEXT DOOR TO ME, PURCHASE TIDY LITTER 35LB. CLUMPING PAILS 4 TO 5 PER MONTH. HE HAS TAKEN 7 CATS OF VARIOUS AGES AND I HAVE 6 ALL OF WHICH WERE STRAYS AT ONE TIME. HIS FAMILY LIKE MYSELF LOVE THEM VERY MUCH AND PROVIDE EXCELLANT CARE WHICH INCLUDES GROOMING AS WELL AS VET CARE. A COUPLE OF THEM HAVE SPECIAL NEEDS WHICH ARE MET DAILY. TIDY CAT 35LB. MAKE THE LITTER BOX CHORE MUCH EASIER THAN OTHER LITTERS USED IN THE PAST. I'M 69 AND CAN NO LONGER WORK. THE ONLY THING THAT MAKES ME ANY MORE PLEASED THAN THE LITTER IS HAVING A COUPON TO PRESENT AT THE REGISTER. THANK YOU TIDY CAT. ANIMAL CAREGIVER---LINDA
Our former neighbors announced they "didn't want the cat anymore" and we could have "it". They came to our door with bowls and a cat basket--"it" (Miss Kitty) was lounging on an old quilt atop the couch. She is a gorgeous cat--she came to us spayed,with all required shots but very scared. The former 'owners' had left her outside---her food bowl was never filled-daily-same with water. Basically, our precious Miss Kitty didn't know which end was up--we fed her and bought a kitty carrier for shelter--finally she 'moved' in and we've had her for a year. Since we hadn't had a cat for many years, I was a bit uniformed about the specifics of good cat care. AND....Miss Kitty had a not so charming habit of kicking litter up like a dust 'bunny' in the desert. I was trying store brands, 'natural ' litter,stuff like driveway gravel,grainy powder. I had a really good coupon that combined Tidy Cats Scoop with her favorite cat food so I bought both--jumbo size. This is the BEST litter I've used and we DO NOT have that voluntary 'kicking' problem anymore! Miss Kitty is quite content with this litter and seems to approve! I approve of the VERY EASY scooping and the Glade Tough Odor Solutions-it's REAL! Smells 'great' compared to other brands. So! Instead of buying a box with a two story kitty 'ladder' we'll keep the litter box and buy Tidy Cats Scoop for one (1) cat! Thanks!
We have 3 indoor cats. I have tried multiple types of litter and Tidy Cats is by far superior to all the others. It clumps well, absorbs odor, and lasts a long time. If I had to drive 50 miles to get it, I would. It is my ultimate first choice for cat litter.
Dust is there but not in any great amount. It certainly has less dust than many other products I've tried. The only issue I have with it is really due to one of my cats. She urinates only at one spot on the back wall of the litter box. So the litter doesn't get a chance to clump well because she's always soaking it down. But again other products have done even worse.
Clumps well and keeps odor under control but dust seems to be worst.
Being a cat/ animal rescuer, I found this product to excellant for multicats, doing everything a cat liter is expected to do plus more. It truley cut down the cat odor in my home. And it has saved me $$$ in not having to purchase more room and carpet deodorizers to be used in the liter box. Thank you for coming up with this new product. Respectfully, L.B-Rimrock ,AZ
I had used this for my cat since she was a kitten with no issues; I have recommended it to friends and family who have cats with litterbox issues... since they switched they have had no problems!
I have two cats and this is the best cat litter I've ever used. It clumps really well and makes it easier to scoop up. It covers the odor really well too. I highly recommend  R Tidy Cats with Glade for anyone that has cats.
I brought other bands and formulas and my cats seem to prefer this one over all and I like it because it controls ordors better.
Excellent product that I can Depend on. has never let me down.
I have never used another litter. This is fabulous! Never have any problems and no traces of stink left behind!
I have 9 cats and it is a challenge to keep home free of cat odors. I have tried other less expensive products but end up spending more in the long run. Even with other clumping litter I end up using more than I would with Tidy Cats.
I have been using Tidy Cats Instant Action for years...in fact I have never used a different brand in the 13 years since I first became a cat owner. I know have three cats and this litter is awesome...clumping and does not stick to litter box.
We just started using the 24/7 litter and it's amazing. The odor control is superior (and much needed for a 4-cat household!) and the clumps stay together. 
I tried this once and this is all I have bought since. It's some good stuff.
My cat was getting urinary infections and our vet recommended nonclumping litter for her and it helped. Tidy Cat has always been my selection for litter.
I really like Tidy Cat and have been using it for years but it seems to have changed! It's still good but the texture is different and it doesn't seem to clump as well for urine! My cat likes it and so I will continue to use it.
I have used Tidy Cats litter for years. Purina has surpassed all the litters they have made before. It is the best hardest clumping mix so far.
Used this litter for many years. Will never use anything else.
I have one cat who is very sensitive to kitty litters and thi s is the only one that I can use.  I find it to be very effective with litter box odors within a few minutes of use.
We have three cats & three litter boxes. On occasion I have had to used non-Tidy Cats litter & the cats ignore that box & use the other two. Normally, they each have their own preferred box.
Have been using this for a few years now and it's the best out there.
I have used the Instant Action for the last 7 years for my cat Cranston and it is the best and only litter he likes!!!!
Cats always use their box with TIDY cat in it. What more could I want? Oh yeah, odor perfectly controlled!
Sorry to say one of my cats will not use the litter box with the glade
It's the only one I buy. It is an excellent product!
I have used this litter for years. I had 14 cats and now am down to 5 cats. ALL the other litters I have used cannot stand up to this one. Including the other Tidy Cat's varieties. This is the best!
Refuse to buy anything else. I have to cats, using the same litter box. People come into my home & don't realize I have cats that live there, but there is no odor in the house. They seem amazed when they see that I have two! lol
I would not use any other brand of litter for my two cats. It's the best!
This is the best kitty litter on the market. Totally manages the odor quickly.
I've been buying Tidy Cat Litter for years and will most likely continue to buy it.
I have been buying this litter for over a month now. It sure helps eliminate those odors. I have five cats, and a huge litter box. So I need all the help I can get. Other brands just dont do.
I tried this litter a couple months ago and so glad I did!  My cats had been peeing outside the box for a year.  I'd been trying different litters seeing what would make it stop, with no luck.  The day I tried this litter the peeing stopped immediately!!   Thank you Thank you Thank you!  
i have used this product for many years now , i switched once and that was mistake my cats wouldn't use it.
For over fifty years of being "owned" by my wonderful felines, I have tried every type of cat litter... even tried to make my own blend using three or four other kinds. Finally last year I was introduced to Tidy Cats... finally the perfect solution to solve the litter box problem. Thank you Purina.
Best litter I've ever used. Would recommend to everyone.
I have 5 cats and thought I would give this a try. It has been wonderful for keeping down the odor and the cats like it too!
I have used Tidy Cat for over 20 years, and it's still my favorite.
I have used Tidy Cats 24/7 for years at one point for 5 cats. It did the job and still is even though I am down to 2 cats. :(
We have 10 cats around the house and it is the best product I have used.
LOVE THIS!! Thx Tidy Cats for the free FULL size container & coupon!! Just bought more!! My kitty LOVES IT TOO!!
I would use this product again and in fact have ordered more. The OMG is that I couldn't believe there was no "dust." To all you cat litter cleaners out there, you know that dust that floats up as you clean and/or pour more in. NONE ... and even if I am out all day, I do not walk into the cat litter area and need to wear a mask. Worth the try!
Tidy Cats was recommended to me by a friend i have 2 cats and 2 foster kittens and the odor of the litter box's was horrendous sometimes and could be difficult to scoop. This litter is easy to scoop and help control the odor it's much better then non clumping litter and is much better then the Sam's Club and Tractor Supply house brands. It is...
Works great if you keep up on scooping love the scent.... Would buy more if i got coupons :)
i have used this litter for years 3 cats 3 litter boxes no problem. it clumps better than the other brands
It REALLY IS lightweight! That part is awesome. It also does work as well as most other clumping litter I've tried - no complaints there. My only issue is that I wish it came unscented. The scent is very strong, and I don't like my cats to stink of those perfumes. But over-all, especially because in the past I've had to pay people to carry litter into my house and broken my disabled back using those heavy boxes every day ... I love this product!!! Walmart delivers it to my door and I can lift it easily myself as it's used. It's been a long time coming - yay!
I Like that the smell of this Kitty Litter does not overwhelm you when the kitty scratches in the litter box and it covers the smell of the potty really good and is easy to scoop out .
My cat and I love this litter It keeps the smell away, and it scoops out very easily!! 
this stuf is great.Rock hard clumps with no dust and no smell.
Only recently I've noticed a heavier perfumed scent in this and the instant action litter.  The scent doesn't do anything to block litter box smells.  All it does is irritate me and my cats. Please consider using less scented additives or introduce an unscented litter.
I've been using Tidy Cats litter for 10 years and really like the instant action. I don't have that "litter box smell" in my house like some cat households can get. I use the odor powder as well during each emptying of waste.
My cat likes the litter and so do we! It's nice to come in the house and smell a pleasant fragrance instead of a litter box!!!
I have the litter box near the kitchen-sure don't want that smell! It works.
GREAT!!!A VERY GOOD PRODUCT. USUALLY CATS DO NOT LIKE THE SMELL OF ANYTHING PERFUMEY. THIS TIME THEY DONT CARE.
Initially, the smell is a bit strong, but it doesn't take long to go away. I love all the Tidy Cat products, tho! =)
I highly enjoy this litter but wish that the smell was a bit more scented.
i have been using tidy cat instant action for years - in my option the best litter for my cat - less dust, tracking and great smell
I have 6 indoor cats, but people can't smell them when they come to our house! This litter clumps very well and holds the smell so our house won't smell like a litter box!
It really smells better than regular litter. Leaves a fresh odor.
Good smell, good clumping, good value, and easily scooped, my 2 cats like it too! meow meow :)
Love the way it keeps the smell at a minimum and the 40 pound bag is a must with three cats.
Leaves a great smell to a really smelly job!
We live in Florida have two cats that use the litter a lot because they drink so much water to stay hydrated. We had been using another corn-based litter for the past year that worked well, but not the best. Recently we moved and the litter is now in our master bathroom so we needed to find a litter that completely eliminated all of the odor and this is it! Ever since we started using the tidy cats with glade we can't even smell it. Honestly sometimes we forget to clean it out because it doesn't smell at all. Absolutely love this product!
I buy Tidy cat all the time. It cuts down on the smell and the litter doesn't fly all over the place like some brands do. 
We have been using this for a couple years now. we have tried others brands and this one is the one we always come back to.It always smells clean and fresh.
I like it because it is a pleasant odor and covers up the cat smells really great
I have serious multiple cats and 3 liter boxes in the house. I clean the boxes twice daily in the morning and at night. Love the fact that there is very little dust and as long as my precious ones cover up no smell!
I use this litter all the time, it smells great I have 6 cats and it works
This Glade scent is very light and refreshing. It kind of smells like grape. I have 7 cats and they didn't mind the switch.
I have 3 adult cats & definately need a litter that smells good & clumps even better, have never had a problem with this litter & have never used any other.
I have 9 cats and really need all the help and the new smell is great! Always have loved Tidy Cats the best.
love the smell of the bathroom when our cat is in her litter box scratching
My cats are 7 and 15 years old and I have been using this product for YEARS and have never had a problem, it clumps well and seems to take care of the "kitty smells". We had picked up other brands but always come back to this Tidy Cat litter.
I really like the smell . And It works great!!!!!!!!!
I have 8 cats, and I am allergic to chemical smells. When this came out I was glad. I had been using small spaces until my Target stopped selling it. This is great. It doesn't smell and I can use it without problem.
My cats prefer this litter over most other kinds, and the ease of container (which is also reusable when empty) and the price make this an excellent value. I love that I can order it online and have it waiting for me in a cart when I get to the store - I don't have to carry it everywhere. Great product!!
I've bought this a few times and each time I wasn't disappointed it performed as expected. clumping was ok, dust was ok(less is more). the glade smell was not to my liking. way to powerful no doubt that's why its so good covering odors. I like a silent litter and this wasn't. each time the cats used the LB you knew it within seconds.
I have used Tidy Cats for many years & have tried all of them. The new Tidy Cats with Glade is WONDERFUL & is by far the BEST EVER for staying clumped & covering odors!!! I was even told my trash can smells good now LOL!!! :D
Great price, delivered to my door, smells goods, easy to scoop
I have been searching and trying different types of litter for the past year trying to find one with the lease amount of dust. This product finally ended my search. Not only is there NO DUST, but it smells nice and it clumps much better than any other brand I have tried, and it is also cheaper !! Bonus !! I scoop every day and the clumps stay together and do not stick to the bottom of the pan. My cat had no problem adjusting to it and I noticed she is not sneezing like she used to. I love this litter !!!!!!!
I bought the Glade by price and was pleasantly surprised by the performance ! Awesome no smell easy to clean up clumps stay together .
Exactly as described. Not dusty and messy. Scoops nicely and qucikly. Hides the scent of cats natural business. Highly recommended and always a greact price at Walmart & super quick home delivery.
With 11 fosters and 5 of my own cats I have to budget resources and the 40lb pails do the job. I average 6 pails a week. Good price and odor control, doesnt turn to cement or paste, not overly dusty. Some less expensive litters require a steel shovel to scoop out.
My female cat is 15 years old. She prefers Tidy Cats Instant Action above the many other clumping cat litters I have tried over the years. Not too much scent and it holds odors well. The clean up is the best for this pet mother as it does not stick like clay or cement to the litter box bottom or walls like most other brands. Use the coupons when they come out and shop the sales and it can be a great bargain.
Tidy Cat always performs like advertised. Great product at great price.
I wasn't sure if this was as good as other Tidy Cat litter but I couldn't get the other at the time. This works just as good and seems easier to sift through.
has no dust when filling cat box, and it clumps urine very tightly for a more solid scoop
love this litter, I buy it all the time. If they happen to be out I buy the 24/7
It claims it is 99% dust free, but when I sift through the box, dust flies in my face.
I have two cats and two litter boxes. This is actually the first and only litter I've used, as I've never had a reason to look elsewhere.  LOVE the clumping feature, it makes cleanup so much easier.  I never detect any odor, and neither do my guests.
this is so much better than fresh step which leaves a film of dust all over.
I have 6 cats and it works great. Low dust and pleasant odor.
Tidy Cat litter is the only brand my cats like. Very low dust residue.
My kitty loves her litter! We use the 24/7 and this one. Tried others they failed! Tidy cat never lets us down! 
I love the new Tidy Cat with Glade! Its not too overpowering of a scent for the cats & I think they like it too!
Just love it for multi cats and it has a nice scent to it with mimial dust.
I think this helps with odor a lot for my cats. I love the scoop/clumping factor as well.
We have three cats and have found that this litter works best for multiple cats.  It clumps easy and there is no odor.  Easy to clean up.  Love the containers with the handles - makes it easy to pour and carry
I love this product! As the cats 'cover' the glade is rleased and the ordos dissolve in he air!
I love the scent of this liter and my kitty does too!
I have tried so many brands of litter and Tidy Cats Instant Action Wins hands down. I even have six cats.  The clumping is now so much better than it used to be. You will love this product. 
I have Litter Robots and this works great in them. The clumping is great and the odor control is great, but it does it without a strong scent so the cats seem to love it!
CLUMPING IS SO GOOD AND I DONT GET THE DUST AND ODOR THE MAKES YOU WANT TO GAG SOMETIMES. ONLY DOWNFALL, NOT ENOUGH COUPONS FOR US THAT ARE BUDGETING.
have been purchasing this for a while for the cats. love that it doesn't have a strong fragrance, clumps well and isn't dust producing.
I've been using Tidy Cats for a very long time.  I have two cats and their pan gets cleaned daily.  I do think there is too much dust but it does a great job clumping and keeps the odor to a minimum.
Works better than the original! Love it!!!!!!!!!!!
Used it love it! Would recommend it to anyone with a pet!
Easy to clean, no struggle to cover, My cats love it. Makes my job easier. Ragdolls are my kids, I have to make sure they are happy
The only litter preferred by my cat. He loves the citrus scent, and it fits in well with the decor of his brand-new litter box.
I love this product!!! I have 4 cats and it works amazingly!!!
I have been using the Tidy Cats cat litter with Glade for 2 months now. I absolutely love it! My kitties don't mind it either! :0)
We switched to Tidy Cat from Fresh Step because Tidy Cat states that it is practically dust free. It certainly lives up to that. Now our surrounding furniture, etc. is no longer covered in dust. Also, the Glade releases a nice fragrance whenever it is used.
Clean fresh odor and the fantastic clumping ability makes this litter a keeper.
it did the job, and I was able to clean the litter box very easy.
excellent for small bathrooms and economical. in my small bathroom, the cat pan sits next to the toilet, and this keeps my bathroom fresh as well as the cat pan. easily to scoop and is flushable which makes it convenient to clean cat pan when i utilize the faclilities.
Really like the clumping, makes clean up easier. Very effective with odors.
This type of litter was my 3rd, and final choice. I was very happy with the results. I clean my cats litter daily, I was amazed on how well the clumps stayed together each and every time I cleaned it!
I have 8 cats and use non-clumping plus this brand of clumping cat litter. My cats prefer the clumping, but I wish it would clump together a little bit better. Most of the time I have problems cleaning out the huge litter box.
our cat will walk around the box several times and see if it's clean--with tidy cat there can still be some there but the odor is masked.
I have five cats, and 10 litterboxes.  This is the only product which keeps the odor down so I don't have to clean their boxes several times a day.
My friend's husband visiting our home for the first time made this comment shortly after walking through the front door. We have 3 litter boxes and several cats. Tidy Cats Instant Action works well for us and is so easy to scoop and clean boxes. It is also very economical for the amount that we use.
I agree the product is not as good as it once was. I have been using tis product for the last four years and would like a coupon to help out here now and than
This works great to cover the odor of our really stinky kitty excrement. I just wish there were some way of making it lighter. I can handle the containers now but as I get older it's going to be tough.
I use Tidy Cat for a long time and still using it. I just wish the would send coupons.
I have been using this since I got my two cats and it works great
I have been using this litter for a couple of months and have one thing to say...it actually works! It clumps instantly and controls odor at the same time! wonderful product
great product, works great great product, works great
Have used Tidy Cats for 8 years and the 24/7 works best for my two cats.  
Tidy Cats with Glade; Great Combination of Two Great Products!
It really is a great brand for my cat because she is old and Tidy Cat covers up the odor in the pan that is great
I have been using Tidy Cat for several years!!  It is a great product!!  The clumps don't break up when you scoop!!  
This is my go to cat litter. This keep the odor down and it's great for clumping!
I have a kitty with allergies, this litter does not make her skin inflamed like nearly all others. Great clumping ability.
My first choice in litter by far, have 3 cats and this is great
I have 2 kittens and one litter box.  Our litter box is in our foyer.  There is a fresh scent with this.  Keeps all odors out.
I think this stays fresher than the other litters I have tried. I've got nine indoor cats and so there is a lot of changing litter. Since I started using this I don't have to change so often
My Wife and I have 11 cats they dont like other litters this product works very well at controling oder but is almost as dusty as old clay litter
I used to use store brand litter. Tidy cats lasts longer and controls odors 100 times better!!!
I have always used Tidy Cat w/great success however, it seems like it is not clumping as well as it used to. Also, my cats love to play w/it, since it rolls everywhere. I do like the product in spite of the items mentioned. It may come to a point that, due to the poor clumping, I may have to try other products.
I have used Tidy Cat for a very long time.  It is always a consistent product that I trust.
I tried this just by chance and sure glad I did! I have a multiple cats in my family and this new Glade team-up with Tidy Cats really does the job for us. Using less litter and getting alot less odors. Clumps better too! Thanks!
i buy once a month for my one kitten or 12 times a year
works great and helps prevent odor, love it
I have 6 cats and foster senior cats for our loal animal control. This litter provides excellent odor control, does not have an overpowering scent of its own and most importantly is well accepted by my cats and my fosters.
I love Tidycat!! It's the only litter I will use. I like it because it clumps well and doesn't create a lot of dust when I'm scooping it out or my kitties are using their box. I also don't notice litterbox odors when I walk in my house. 
This cat litter is wonderful! It clumps up so that the cat litter stays clean for longer, and no odor at all! The cat litter actually smells quite good on it's own. My kitten loves it, I love it, so I will rate it 5 stars. Absolutely worth the price.
Cat's are happy, so I'm happy. It has good odor neutralizing effects, and doesn't get tracked everywhere. easy clean up also.
Worked great makes cleaning litter box easier
My cat and the litter box are both in my bedroom with no problems.
I have 9 cats and have used this letter for several years and have been satisfied. There is no odor.
I have three cats, I never have odor problems. The cats have not liked any other litters, especially not some very perfumey brands I have tried.
have been using Tidy Cat for many years.Its the best there is for odor control and ease of scoopability !!
Everyone that walks into my house can't believe that I have 6 cats!!! Tidy cats helps keep the litter box odor at a minimum .
I have used Tidy Cats for over 14 years with my cats, this one is my favorite.
I have used Tidy Cats for years and would not consider using any other product! I use bunches of it for my four indoor cats!
I have 6 cats and they all share the same litter boxes. I have no problems because Tidy Cats keeps odors at a minimum.
I've been using this litter for over 10years. When ever I try a different brand (and I've tried about all of them) I always go back Tidy Cats.
I have been using this type for a few years now, I have two cats. I find that the clumping action isn't as good as it used to be, but I still find it to be one of the best out there.
I have been buying this because it kills odors really good for my cat.
I have been buying the blue bucket exclusively since I have grown to six cats...easy to scoop and minimal residual odor...I have bought other blends of tidy cat and other brands when my store is out, but always go back to "blue"
I have used this brand ONLY for years!! Awesome stuff!!!
I have two cats and use tidy cats regularly. I wouldn't change brands. Never get non clumpimg formula however- it is useless
Neutralizes odors easy to pick up in more than one cat household
Switched back to clumping vs non clumping Pine litter...odor control is better.
I've tried other brands, but Tidy Cats always comes out on top for odor control.  In 25 years and 4 cats, I've never had a cat refuse to use it.  Instant Action clumps well and really does control odor well.
I have used this product for a lot of years.  Have four cats and can not even tell they are there, well except for the purrs.  Even got a friend to switch.
Superior clumping, tough on odors. What else is there to ask for. 
Been using this for over 8 years and wouldn't think of using anything else!
I have always used tidy Cats. I have tried other brands, but always come back to Tidy Cats.
Tried it when it first came out and I really like it as do my cats. I have many as I foster for a shelter.
Ive tried all tidy cat order control litter and this one is by far the best one, I never smell the litter box anymore and it clumps the urine which makes cleaning the litter box easy. There's hardy any dust. ..I have highly recommended this to friends and family....please never take it away.
I seen this at PetsMart on sale having 3 cats I decided to see if it was going to be a better litter then the 24/7 I havenot looked back since It has been 2 months now and this is all I use.
I've tried other kinds of litter and it was a no go. They won't even use the 24/7 kind, just instant action for my babies!
We love this cat litter for our cats, its cheap and works great. The smell is awesome. Our landlord always says he can never smell that we even have cats. I scoop the litter box at least 3 times a week. I love the way it has a handle so it makes it easier for me to pour. The close lid makes it perfect for storage as well. We use an inclosed litter house for our cats and this out beats all the other cat litters we have tried.
My cats do not like any other brand of cat litter i've tried so will stay with what works best:TIDY CATS.
This is the only kitty litter that I use. Tried others that did not perform as well.
I've tried every types of cat litter.. having 9 indoor cats and several cat boxes.. I find the Tidy cat works longer than all of them . I've several times tried other brands due to being cheaper.. or someone told me to try it.. I always go back to the tidy cat..
I have six cats so I use a lot of litter and have tried a lot too, I always come back to Tidy cat, it's the only one that meets all of my expectations.
Tidy Cats is the favorite litter of our four cats. Two of them also like the Breeze system, but only for "liquids". We have tried other litters, but not only do the cats not like them, my husband and I don't like them much either!
I bought this because it was the last litter on the shelves at Wal-Mart. I'm glad I bought it. It really does control odor.
Best Cat litter ever......... won't use any other!
I have two cats and their litter boxes are filled with Tidy Cats.  Immediate odor control is great; however, baking soda would make this product better.  I still sprinkle baking soda in the bottom of the pan before I fill it with litter.  
Great litter and the containers are fab.
I have used for a long time. It clumps great and I have 3 cats. I would not use anything else for my cats.
Everyone who owns a cat should try this product,it's great!!!!!
LOVE the light weight Tidy Cat litter, its great for my back first of all, second same high quality as reg Tidy Cats Litter
'Pet smart' had it on sale for the same price as amazon and we had a 10$ off coupon, plus the option to return it if the cat didn't take to it - made the decision to get it there a no brainer. We are getting our pads and pellets through amazon, way cheaper and easy. Anyway, this system is amazing. We rescued a young adult male and started him out with clumping litter. He would use the litter box but though he would dig and scrape the side walls for a long time, he really didn't cover anything. He had a bad habit of stepping into the wet litter or even his poo and then we had clumps of dirty litter tracked outside the box and stuck like glue on his back paws and even his tail! After a few weeks of cleaning litter off him we were lookin at the reviews on amazon of this system and figured we would give it a try. It is near perfect. We followed the recommendations for getting him to use the new box and within 3 days he was using it. Since he never was efficient at covering anything with clumping litter, this works well. He scratches around then is done, he still doesn't cover his poo, but once you clean it out, the smell goes away. He at least doesn't step in it any more. No more marathon scratching of the litter box sides. His poo tends on the soft side, so cleanup is usually done with gloves and a Lysol wipe. We add extra pellets towards the end of the month as we end up picking up some pellets each time we clean up his poo. We also sprinkle baking soda on the pad to eliminate any odor, though there really isn't much. No more litter around the house and the system is easy to use. Cost is not much more than a traditional litter box, cleaner, healthier for the cat and owners :-)
For the first time in years we are down to only one kitty. This is a good product and I have purchased this one many times. Sometimes though it does stick too much to the litter box but other than that, it is a good product!
I started purchasing this product for my bengal boy. The breeder had him using the pine pellets and I wanted something with that pine scent for him to make the change a bit easier. The second I finished pouring it he wasted no time breaking it in. 7lbs can last me a month almost! While it does smell amazing, my boy has a smelly behind so it didn't cover as much. I ended up switching to the arm and hammer brand and while it masked the smell better, I was in need of changing a lot more. I switched back, paired it up with Tidy Cats Cat Box Deodorizer and now both of us are happy again. Saved me money switching back too! It has become more popular in stores over the last two years, which is also a plus.
that Tidy Cats "lightweight litter" commercial is truly inspiring
I love that this is the same Tidy Cats quality but so easy to carry! I don't know that I would alway buy this because the price is quite a bit higher but I do love it!
That New Tidy Cats Lightweight litter commercial tho >>> #LMAO  #dying
My one cat won't use any other Then Tidy cat liter. If I try something new it will leave its deposit on the floor instead of the liter box. Since I went back to Tidy cat no messes on the floor.
I bought the multiple cat formula even though I only have one cat as I was looking for an odor protection product that surpassed all the others. I thought multiple cat formula would be more than adequate for my one cat. I would say overall, it is good, but did not far exceed what I was hoping for. It does the job for my one cat, but would...
I always buy the one in the blue and yellow container,except when the store I'm at is out. Then I buy the one in the red and yellow container.
I started buying this about two months ago after I got my first cat. None of the litters I used before masked the smell of the litter box and I decided to try this litter  because I love Glade. I haven't ever looked back since. I have gotten multiple people hooked on this litter, because of how great it is. Scoops better than any litter I've used, mask odors better than I would have thought possible, and is a decent price!
I HAVE PURCHASED MY THIRD 35LB BUCKET....WILL KEEP ON BUYING IT!
My male neutered cat simply loves this litter..  I have tried tons of other litter brands but ALWAYS come back to Tidy cats!  You would never know I have a cat inside unless you searched for his box!  Awesome product, highly recommend!  Worth every penny!  My cat loves all of the clumping Tidy Cats lines of litter!   Thanks for making my precious kitty happy, and keeping my house smelling great!  Simply put, the best litter $ can buy!
I like this product. Being a large container, it lasts longer!! Since I am handicapped, it helps as a stool for scopping, etc.
Love this litter! When I first got my Maine Coon I used some of the other Tidy Cats litters (Powerblend, 24/7 Performance, Instant Action etc), but ultimately wasn't that impressed with them and switched to Fresh Step instead- The Fresh Step clumped a lot stronger, tracked less, and smelled better, in my opinion. However, I always hated that it came in 25 lb boxes that were pretty unwieldly to carry if I had other shopping to do. And with such a big cat, we were buying litter pretty frequently. So, when I saw the Tidy Cats LightWeight commercials, I wanted to give Tidy Cats another chance, and am thrilled that not only is it super light weight as advertised, it clumps great and has very little dust (not sure why other reviewers have said it's dusty). The only little negatives are that it does track a bit more than my old Fresh Step, and it's a little more pricey. But it's great to be able to easily carry and transport two or three of these containers at a time, and I really do think it's the best clumping out of all the Tidy Cats litters. Some of the others were very muddy clumpers, which made the litterbox hard to clean and smelly. This works great, though!
I have been purchases this for years. I have 7 cats and they didn't like the other litters with big hunks,, hurts there feet. As soon as I purchased the small spaces they stopped kicking the litter out of the box, and did there business ON the litter I will Always use small spaces, smell is a lot less, as they go on the litter not the box, great value, and you use less. Best thing sence ice cream.
I have four cats and they won't use anything else.
I've used all the other varieties of the Tidy Cats clumping litters and this one is the best by far. My cats prefer Tidy Cat Litter to the other leading brands, and I've been using Tidy Cats with Glade for the past three months. It has done a terrific job controlling the four kitty box odors in my home. I'm glad that I have found a product that works well for all of us!
I have purchased about every product available thru the years and "Tidy Cats Scoop Instant Action Cat Litter" is all I could ask for and more. My cat is extremely picky, but he likes this, as well. The litter "clumps" better than most, making cleaning the litter box a snap. It lasts longer and there is absolutely no odor. The price is a bit high, but well worth it. I prefer the 35lb. bucket so I don't have to buy as often.
To start, my cat was adopted from a shelter as a nine week old kitten, and started with Feline Pine brand scoopable litter as I have heard clay and clay scooping litter is bad for little kittens due to the dust and chemicals. She had no problems adapting to it, but Feline Pine and most of the equivalent brands are pretty expensive. For an economical alternative, I tried corn litter and gave up on it as the smell was atrocious, and went back to Feline Pine. I walked into the local Walmart and they were out of Feline Pine, and after looking at what was available, discovered the Pure Nature by Purina. Since my cat is used to the natural litters, I chose it and hoped for the best, although I was wary of the corn ingredient due to my prior bad experience with corn based litter. I really like this litter and so does my cat. It does have a pretty powerful scent, but it is one that I like- it's a strong pine/cedar smell and reminds of a pine forest. When the cat uses it, I don't notice because there is no ammonia smell or feces smell. So far so good. The cat used the box the minute I put the litter in there- also a good sign. Most of the urine does clump up well enough, and what doesn't I use a different type of scoop with finer slats to get what my big slatted scoop lets fall through- still not a problem for me as I don't mind the little bit of extra scooping to get all the clumpies out. My only real complaint is that this stuff tracks all over the place, even with a litter mat. The litter itself has a sawdust like consistency, so it is very light and very trackable. For me, this is no big deal as I have a broom and vacuum and use them all the time anyway. For others, I could see this as being a problem. So, as far as litter goes, my cat loves it and I love it. For me, the pros of using this litter outweigh the cons. Also, I usually buy this at Walmart for less than half the price listed here. I would suggest you check out local stores unless you can't get out to buy the litter. On price, this litter is very reasonable/economical compared to all the other natural litters out there and I would recommend it.
Only the Breeze "system" has proven - over many years of experience as cat owners - to be an effective and simple way to deal with cats that have "accidents" easily if they don't have immaculate facilities readily available, as well as the only one we've found that is 100% urine-based odor free. (Nothing can hide the smell of fresh, solid cat mess, but we don't trust them with lighting candles yet....LOL.) Its too bad that the pads are rather expensive, since we go through a lot of them. But, buying LOTS when we find a good price helps. We have tried many experiments with cutting up dog "potty pads", etc. - but its tiresome at best, and doesn't work well (since most don't have the gel inserts these have) so we keep coming back to just replacing the pads after every two uses. (Be SURE to use each pad twice - turning the tray around after each use.) Fortunately, the Breeze pellets last FOREVER* - IF you "stir" them every time you know they've been used (our cats don't seem to like digging around in the pellets much) and add a sprinkle of baking soda every time you change a pad. (*We haven't replaced them in ages - since we started stirring and sprinkling.) I do strongly recommend starting with about 2 - 3" depth, though - so more bags to start, but then no (or few) replacements needed. So that part of the "system" isn't as expensive at it first seems. The other tip that's made a big difference for us is the one to get one more cat box (no matter WHAT system you use) than you have cats - in our case three of the Breeze boxes for our two cats. (Each new started box we've bought included a $10-off coupon for another one.) It seems a bit much - especially the space required, I know, but - again - its made the difference in smell and accidents for us, plus we never have to do "heavy duty" clean-ups - so its well worth it. Oh yes, and the Breeze one is SUPER easy to use. MUCH easier than scooping and dumping OR flushing (which is evidently not so hot for the plumbing nor the environment after all?) Never lugging another bag of litter home is nice, too. Also, WAY easier than completely emptying and scrubbing the pans every so often (we haven't had to do that yet - just some quick wipe-ups of the edges once in a great while.) Even a slightly ill kitty's loose mess is way easier to clean up than any other methods we have ever used (including kitty "pines", newspaper-based pellets, corn-based litters, silicone "pearls", etc.) We have never resorted to an electric "automatic" litter box, and don't plan on going there - so I can't comment on their efficacy. 'Hope this helps, we've certainly benefitted from many, many other owner's tips on Amazon and elsewhere over the years.
It's like there's not a litterbox in the room with no smell, easy to scoop up.  gotta love it!
As a cat breeder with show cats, good litter is critical to healthy environment and to healthy cats. I used TC's clay litter for years out in the cattery and have recently started using the scoopable litter in the house.y husband has the nose of a bloodhound and says the house smells fresh routinely. There is NO finer compliment than that!
Three kitties, no smell with Tidy Cats Multiple Cat formular!
Love it! No smells at all and my two cats love it too!!
Love having good smelling litter to cover bad smelling deposits of my furry three!
I have been using Tidy Cats for years, and I really like the smell of this new litter!
This is all we use in our house. As a cat parent with perfume sensitivities, the smell is pleasant. My girls won't use anything else.
I love ordering this online. Just bringing it into the house beats dragging it all over the store! This litter is great at odor control and lasts a long time.
This is a HUGE amount of cat litter, but we have four kitties, so I thought it might be what we needed. I wasn't disappointed. It works well. You don't smell the cat box, and you don't have to keep going back to the store for liter.
We only use tidy cat litter no smell easy clean up! you should try it
I have 4 cats that companion my home and have used several Tidy Cats scoop brand litters and they all work fine with the exception that there is more than a little cloud of dust when pouring or cleaning/sifting the litter box, though I know the product(s) state 99.6% dust free, it's a bit more than .04% dust I see. I do, though, like this litter w/ Glade as I do notice the odor control does last longer and the Glade scent is pleasant and not overpowering BUT it's clumping power is less than, say, their Power Blend, which I have used for years. I will say this about Tide Cats scoop litter - every person that has entered my home has said they didn't even know I had any animals in my home until they saw my cats as it does not smell like I own any animals.  Kudos to Tidy Cats. :)
I have 2 cats and it works great on neutralizing odors and keeps house smelling fresh. only have a slight problem with dust tracking as they get out after use.
This is great for preventing cat odor in a room. Easy to scoop. My only disappointment was that I thought it was unscented. Perhaps I read the add wrong. Anyway, it's not bad, but it does smell strongly of soap when it is fresh. I'm sensitive to 'fragrances'. Everything else is great.
We have two of our own kitties and four fosters. All use their boxes without fail. Clean up for all these kitties is so much easier when using this litter and helps keep the smell manageable.
I have 4 cats and have been using Small Spaces for several years now! I never want to use anything else, but the price is very high. It is higher than any of the other Tidy Cat litters, and rarely goes on sale, but I still buy it because of it's performance.
I am a 71 year old handicapped grandmother. Before the light-weight litter, I had to find a clerk to load the litter into my cart, find another clerk to take it to my car, then wait until one of my girls or grandchildren came to my home to take it inside. So I love being able to do all this myself. There does seem to be more dust when actually cleaning out the litter box. But my biggest concern is the price. It is the same price as the 35 pound product. When changing out the litter with new, the 35 pound product will do all three of my litter boxes, with some left over. I need two of the light-weight 18 pound containers to change the litter in the three boxes, with not much left over. That means that every time I change the litter out, it costs me twice as much. Plus, when adding litter after daily scooping, it doesn't go far. The only way I can afford to continue to use this product is if you reduce the price. This is a great product! I know when something is new, it costs more. However, I hope you don't wait too long to adjust the price so it doesn't cost so much to use. Those of us who need the light-weight product most (elderly and/or handicapped) are also probably the most likely to be living on a small fixed income.
I've given it a month's try before reviewing and would totally swap over in a heartbeat except I have one cat who doesn't like strong scents that won't go near it.  My other cats took to it immediately.  Having litter that doesn't weigh a ton is amazing, it clumps well, it takes the abuse of multiple cats well, and it lasts almost as long as a 20lb box so I'm not going to gripe about the price.  In my honest opinion though, whoever reported it being nearly dust free needs to go back to their lab reports (if any).  It's dusty, at least as dusty as the regular Tidy Cats I use and it does track out of the box.  It's Light though!  Make it light and scent free and it will be all I buy in the future!
With my Multi cat home this is the best litter I have ever used. I have gone through many different brands to eliminate odor smell. This litter finally cleaned the air.
I bought this based upon a friend's recommendation, and I will not buy anything else but Tidy Cat litter in the future. At first I bought the cheap stuff, and had to wear a gas mask every time my cat used the box and when I scooped it out. But now with Tidy Cat, I put away the gas mask and ventilator, this litter does indeed have terrific anti-stink 'em properties which really do work. And it also clumps extremely well, my adult cat leaves behind boulders. And even with her and all three seven week old kittens using it, there is no foul odor whatsoever. Nice that the paint on the ceiling doesn't blister and peel any longer from the fumes I had with the cheap litter. It is very well worth the little extra money to buy Tidy Cat. The volume of dust is not at all bad, its quite manageable. Far, far less dust than the cheap stuff which was horrible (clouds of it). I very highly recommend this.
I've had cats for years, graduating from clay litter to clumping litter. When I heard about Breeze, I was skeptical in spite of good reviews. My cat needed a new littler box, and the store had a sale, making the purchase economically comparable to the standard system of a new box and scoop-litter. I bought the Breeze package and am thrilled!!   My cat adapted immediately. Whether he buries his feces or not, the odor is simply not there. The pellets are odorless, so they aren't masking a bad odor.  I change the liner once a week (it's similar material to a diaper - again no odor), and the pellets about once a month.  When I walk by and see that there is poo, I use dog-curb bags or diaper disposal bags from the dollar store, to dispose of the waste. (Since a couple of pellets usually stick, I don't flush because I'm not sure if they are septic tank safe or not.)  No mess, no dust, easy clean up --  I love it!!
I have 3 cats in a pretty small town home and I hated the way it smelled when I would come home from work, no matter how often I cleaned it. I even tried baking soda. Plus it was dusty and clumpy and yuck. I saw this at Walmart and knew I needed to try it. First of all it didnt break my wrist when I picked it up and secondly I loved that there wasnt a cloud of dust that I had to breathe in when I added it to my cat boxes. The cats seemed to like it more too and cleaning it was so much easier than before. I used it, I love it I reccomend it to all my friends and it is the only kind I buy now.
I'm not sure who is writing these other reviews, but this is hands down the best litter ever. While it is very dusty it is certainly no more dusty than any other clumping cat litter (they are all quite dusty indeed.) Furthermore, if you buy it in the 18 pound box (instead of the canister) you can easily control the dust by just pulling along the dotted line, then pouring though the small slit produced (DO NOT pull up the flap or otherwise open the top). This takes a little longer but produces almost no dust at all, and because of the light weight the longer pour time is not a problem. The litter itself clumps much better than any other litters and the cats seem to bury their poop more completely. I also seem to use less litter (by volume) than when using other brands, it seems that if I clean the box daily (as everyone should be doing no matter what litter they use) I need to replace very little to keep the box topped up. This is way to expensive on Amazon.com, the same 18 pound box only costs $19 (not much more than 1/2 the Amazon price) at Sams Club. Unfortunately I know that not everybody can buy at Sam's. I have to drive almost half an hour to get to the nearest Sam's Club, and got my Sams membership pretty much expressly to buy this litter as Sam's is the only place I know of locally that carries it in the box (I would not buy this, or any other litter, in a canister because of the dust).
As I have many cats, I often have to buy what is on sale, what I may have a coupon for, or the cheapest. When I can do any of the above with Tidy Cat, I always buy it. My cats seem to like its texture the best (none are declawed), and it keeps its "working" characteristics longer than other brands. Tidy Cat has been my favorite cat litter for many years.
This is the most effective cat litter I have ever purchased. It controls odors, is fast clumping, is not dusty, and is cost efficient. The container it comes in is very handy and is reusable. Have tried others and they don't do the job like this one does.
I've had my Breeze litter box for almost a year and I will never go back to using regular cat litter again. I'm a "reformed" crazy cat lady (now down to two after many years of having an average of 12). I have tried every type of litter on the market - from the usual "regular" clay liiter, to clumping litters, to "alternative" litters - you name the litter, I've tried it. All had one problem or another - dust, smell, cats didn't like it, "natural" litter attracted bugs, blah, blah, blah. When I moved to an apt last summer, I had to have something that wouldn't smell, the cats would like, and if I didn't have to lug heavy bags of litter up and down stairs, it would be a major plus. I saw the Breeze Litter Box in a pet store and figured that it was worth a try. The idea of this box isn't new - I had something similar 30 years ago that didn't use pellets or a pad, and it kind of sort of worked okay. The addition of a pad and the pellets was a big improvement making the box less smelly and easier to clean (the urine in the old style box drained into a drawer which you then had to empty which sometimes caused a mess). I set up the box according to directions but my cats didn't use it until I took away the old box and litter. Luckily, they took to using it right away when they had no other option. My apt has remained smell-free, the pellets get kicked out of the box on occassion but are easy to clean up and I don't have cat litter tracked every where like I did with the old box and clumping litter. With two cats (both maybe 8 years old), I change the pee pads on average every 4 days, and change out the pellets and wash down the box about every 4 to 6 weeks. It might be a little more expensive than using clumping litter but when you factor in the ease of use and over all cleanliness, its well worth it. From reading other reviews the main issue with this box revolves around cat poop. Yes, when the cat "goes", its going to smell, but if the cat digs in the box, the smell will go away. Yes, ,if your cat has loose bowels, then that's also going to be an issue with this cat box. Cats are not supposed to have loose bowels and if yours does, please, please take the critter to the vet and find out what is going on. Many times a change in diet is warranted and if you change to a low grain, or better yet, no grain, cat food, the problem will sometimes right itself. Parasites also cause loose bowels (and a bad smell) and so can the cat having been on antibiotics. Ask your vet about a product called "Fortiflora" a pro-biotic made by Purina (available here on Amazon). Immensely helped a cat that I had that had chronic diarrhea. If your cat still has loose bowels after trying the above, and your vet can't suggest anything else, I'd say that the Breeze Litter Box will probably not be the right thing for you, but for me, I'm never going back to using a regular cat box again!
Familiar with litter, good product and reasonably priced. I am very pleased with the on-time delivery.
Still the best clumping litter I've found. I wish Walmart still had the free home delivery on the larger size!!! It was a blessing for those of us who are disabled & unable to left it into a cart or carry it up the stairs!
I have been using this version of Tidy Cats for over a month now. My four cats have not had a problem with the scent which they sometimes do. The dust level is comparable to other Tidy Cat products.
My two cats love this! Not too perfumy like another I used & they were not too fond of
This is my choice litter! Love the scoopable!!! Perfect for my house.
I've used this product for both of my cats for years. Love it!
My cats have been using Tidy Cat for years and it works fine.  Maybe a little dusty at times but not like other brands so we stick with Tidy Cat.
Love this litter, use it all the time, cats prefer it.
We have been using Tidy Cat Scoop for several years.  Our cats love it.  
I am a dedicated Tidy Cats Scoop user and really love the new Glade Scented Litter. The scent lasts quite a long time. Thanks for this product!!