I became a cat owner (took in a stray) in July who happened to be pregnant, giving birth to 3 kittens 7/24/13. First time cat owner, so I have gone through several different types of cat litter, several types of litter boxes. While I like the pellet cat litter box system, I found it the pellets and pads to be expensive. My cat relieves herself quite alot and imo poops as much as 2 cats. I think anyone's goal with cats is to contain/avoid the horrible stinky smell of the cat(s) deposits. I live in a small apartment so the options for litter box placement was minimal and ended up in the bathroom. I've used the pellets and pads, the Arm & Hammer with baking soda (along with applying additional odor spray or a scented soda to help absorb the stink), used the non-clumping litter for the kittens, which worked fine and was very cheap, but quite messy (tracking out of the box). I go through litter quite fast, was buying the 14 to 27 pound boxes. This month (September) I decided to try the Tidy Cats Scoop Instant Action and I have been quite pleased with it's clumping quality and most importantly the containment of the stink! I have found my winner and will continue to use this brand/formula. I'm hoping when the kittens leave us, a 35 pound box will last Momma cat a month but we'll see. Instead of cleaning out the boxes every day, I can now go every two days and I'm pleased with that. I would recommend this product to anyone who isn't satisfied with the litter they use now for any reason (price, doesn't contain smell, doesn't clump nicely). Very glad I decided to try this brand, I won't have to try any other types/brands. Would love to see coupons offered for the product.
"Your house smells so clean! I would never have guessed you have eight cats!" That's what more than one person has said to me over the years! I've tried all the litter brands and Tidy Cats is the clear winner. It also provides the best odor control without having a scent that is too strong for my cats' sensitive noses. I love how it's very low on dust and clumps tightly. I've tried the brand of litter that's made from ground corn, and the odor of the wet litter is gag-inducing! They offer free rebates and $3 - $5 off coupons, and I still won't buy it ever again! I never have an odor problem with Tidy Cats, even when one of my cats refuses to cover up after "doing his business." Another brand is extremely dusty; I would never want my cats to breathe that in every day! Even though Tidy Cats keeps odor away, I scoop the litter boxes twice a day, and also wash the litter boxes and change the litter as directed. That helps too. Litter can only do so much; you still need to scoop it often and leave an inviting clean place for your cats to go to the bathroom. And, if you have cats who urinate outside the box, make sure the litter box is large enough and that it doesn't have a cover on it! I have a giant cat who is long, tall and over 26 lbs. I never found a litter box large enough for him, so I bought a large plastic under-the-bed garment storage tote that is over three feet long. It works great. I had to buy more because the other cats were using it too. I loved the light blue Tidy Cats brand litter box with the raised end. It had a slick surface that keeps clumps from sticking to it, but it just wasn't big enough. Having multiple litter boxes also helps in a multi-cat household; it helps with territory issues and they always have options and can have a place that's their own.
I first bought Tidy Cats® 24/7 Performance - Clumping Cat Litter years ago because I liked the convenience of the 14lb jug (so much neater than bags).  Prior to trying Tidy Cats, I had tried many different brands of litter for my 3 cats.  Each cat preferred a different brand.  I was so happy when all 3 cats agreed that Tidy Cats 24/7 was THE BEST!!   It's low dust, has no perfumey smell, clumps hard, and really does lock in odors around the clock. Plus, the cost is very reasonable, even without catching it on sale or using a coupon.  Great Product in a great container!!  After cleaning the empty jugs and tubs, I put them to use in the garage and garden.
Ran out of Tidy Cat Instant Action & went to closest store in our town to buy litter & they didn't have any, so I bought a different brand of what they had. Worst mistake ever, the smell was horrible it needed to be changed right away! Tidy Cats is the BEST, worth the drive & price to get it!
Excellent product at a typical great Walmart price. Will buy again and would recommend to anyone
Any of the Tidy Cats clumping litters work well for me. As a longtime cat owner, I've tried lots of different types of litters.Tidy Cats is the best. The 24/7 litter is the one I buy most frequency based on packaging (i.e., it comes in a big enough size that makes it worth my while to purchase) and price. I don't find it dusty, and it's good at controlling odors and clumps well. You can buy cheaper litter for sure, but you'll also go through it much more quickly than you will go through your Tidy Cat.  
I have 4 indoor cats and Tidy Cats is the only brand of litter I'll buy. I coupon, and therefore tried another brand, the one in the orange box, and it was terrible! It was dusty, and the scent was gross. I went right back to Tidy Cats and I'm sorry I ever wasted my few dollars on the other brand!
I bought 4 to try it out first and got my cats approval. The smell is not the best but tolerable because is not very strong. I bought another 14 containers. Would continue to use it because its practicaly dust free.
we will only use the blue n yellow tidy cats wont touch n e others even from tidy cat or n e other brand we do rescue n can have 14 or more or less at a time we scoop daily with a litter geni wich is also great no problems with smell or clumping no funky perfume smells absolut best value we can get id rather pay the few exstra bucks to have quality n quantity for the best n longest results no matter how many cats scoop daily keeps it fresh n prevents breakdow n foul odars
We were using Tidy Cats - Small Spaces for a long time, and it was great! However, after we moved to NYC, we only found Instant Action in the store. We decided to try it since it's also from Tidy Cats. This one clumps better than Small Spaces, but doesn't smell as nice. Small Spaces actually smells great to me, and Instant Action kills the odor but doesn't release the nice scent like Small Spaces. Overall, I'm satisfied with this product, and will continue to buy it if we can't find Small Spaces. PS. We live in a one bedroom apartment and there's no bad smell at all.
The smell is awful. If it's too much perfume for me, then it's way too much for the cats. Too bad I bought so much (on sale) and I can't afford to give it away. I just have to be hyper-vigilant about cleaning; tough with 9 litter boxes. I hope the old Tidy Cats is still available to buy after this gunk is gone.
I bought the 35lbs. hoping I would not be disappointed....and I have not been!!! This is the best cat litter I have tried and I will buy no other now. I have 4 inside pets and even though I would scoop the litter boxes daily you could always smell ammonia. With this litter I have no smell and it is really absorbent and easy to scoop up. Thank you so much!!!
This is the best litter I have ever used. It clumps nicely and there is never a mess and no strong urine smell. I will not buy any other litter ! Thank you for coming out with a good product. I find it on sale often too which is great !
I tried this litter after I had a big problem with the Tidy Cat Litter with the red cap. I had some free coupons and I either had to replace my old Tidy Cat Litter with another one, or go to a different brand. I tried this since it was new and my first reaction was that the smell was very nondescript. Glade makes so many great fragrances and I just wasn't impressed with this smell. Other than that, the litter clumped well, I have three cats, and much to my surprise, there was almost no tracking when they came out of the box. This is probably the best Tidy Cat Litter I have used so far, yes, even better than the one with the red cap, since that one tracked way more than this one. I have been using this litter for three weeks now and if they don't make any changes, except for maybe improving the smell, this will be a keeper for me.
As many other reviewers here I've also been a big fan of the Tidy cats Instant Action and when I saw this new product with Glade I thought it would surely be even better. NO, JUST NO! First of all the smell is terrible! As soon as I opened it I realized I would not be purchasing this product ever again. But still, if my cat didn't mind the smell so much and it worked just as well as the Instant Action, I was just going to finish up the bucket. But now, after trying it out, I realized this litter does NOT clump as Instant Action does. It is not easy to scoop, it smells terrible and it's just an overall terrible product, I wouldn't recommend anyone to use it and now I'm even thinking about just throwing it out and getting new litter.
Thank you Walmart for including this in ship to home. It has a nice, light and clean fragrance. Not overpowering at all. It comes in a large plastic bag, inside a cardboard box with handles. The price can't be beat, but the quality seems better than Tidy Cats! Happy Scooping. ^_^
I purchased this a month ago at Sam's Club. I usually use Tidy Cats Small Spaces (orange label) and decided to give this a try because it costs less. Works like it should, clumps great and creates very low dust, but the smell is awful. Tidy Cats Small Spaces has a scent I can tolerate in the bathroom... This I cannot. It just makes the entire bathroom smell like it's super dirty and wet.
Clumps pretty well. Covers odor well. Pricey, but you get what you pay for. Scoop the box daily and there won't be any odor. I use the pan liners in sweater totes and it makes cleanup much easier. The bucket with the handle is the best invention for transporting and stacking cat sand.... ever.
Overall great product, and I still use it between three litter boxes. The size of the pail really helps me to hold onto it longer than constantly making trips to the store for more litter. When it goes on sale, I try to snatch up a couple. :)
I've used Tidy Cat products for years, changing occasionally to other litter products to test them, yet I always return to Tidy Cat because their product does what the package says (24/7 odor control) and the clumping litter becomes hard like a rock, which makes daily scooping a cinch. What I like the best about Tidy Cat is their economical price.
The litter works about as good as any. The deliery is prompt, but I changed to use this product in the plastic jug because of damage received to boxed litter previously. This arrived with the lid partially off so the product was spilled in the bottom of the box just as the past products. I will need to start buying from store only.
We have 3 cats and are big fans of this litter. It's easy to clean up after the felines and controls odor really well. It's also super affordable, especially when on sale (Target has some great deals with $5 gift cards with purchase). The only small downside is that the litter can be somewhat messy. The small particles stick to kitty feet. This was easily controlled with the addition of a litter mat outside of the boxes.
We have 3 cats and go through at large pail about every 2 weeks. Our one cat will ONLY use the litter pan with tidy cats. We've tried other brands and the more expensive 'natural' kinds of litter, but he refuses to use it. We reuse the pails for garbage can and storage of things in our basement like christmas lights and tools. I would just like the pails to be a little bit easier to pour, and some more coupons!
I started using clumping style litter for my cats last year when we moved to a smaller house. I trusted Tidy Cat so that is the brand I chose. Being money conscience I tried a cheaper brand and added it to the remaining Tidy Cat. The other brand looked like Tidy Cat and seemed to be doing well until the ratio of Tidy Cat to the other brand became less and less. That's when I noticed that the odor was becoming more noticeable even cleaning the box more often. You truly get what you pay for and I will never switch my Tidy Cat for a less expensive brand again.
This litter does exactly what is says - works 24/7! I would never buy anything else!
This litter is disgusting. Definitely do not use this if your litter box is in a small space like a bathroom - my bathroom now has a thick, chemical stink to it that can only be described as a noxious plastic odor. The Glade additive is not a bad idea in theory, but in reality it's absolutely terrible. I will never buy this again, even in a pinch. Try again, Tidy Cat.
I HAVE 6 CATS AND CHANGE THE BOXES EVERY WEEK IT IS THE BEST BY FAR CAT LITTER I HAVE EVER PURCHASED AND WILL CONTINUE TO PURCHASE !!
I totally disagree with Cindy & Joyce comments... I have four cats and have been using Tidy cat Litter for years..but since I am getting older now the weight of the container was getting a bit much ..so  I bought the lightweight litter to try as cats are picky I didn't know if they would use it or if it clumped well ( I had a regular Tidy multi cat Litter as a back up) well!! to my surprise they used it just fine (I have three litter box's) only fill one with the lightweight just in case!! all four used the same box!! the Tidy cat lightweight litter is great, it clumps better, less dust ( I should know I'm the one who cleans this house) and it control's the odor,I would recommend this product to anyone with cats.....Thank you for making a great product for owners of cats.  From a Cat owner in Pioneertown, Ca. PS. I am not a employee of Tidy cats in anyway shape or form.
The first and only place I could find this was at Sam's after seeing it all over TV. So I bought the 2 pack they sell - I do wish that Walmart.com would sell it in a 2 pack just to save a few $$ but I love it. The cats did not seem to mind...it does not have a Glade smell (so other reviews about a smell I don't think that correct). I use Arm & Hammer Cat Litter Deo powder too to cut down on the box smell. But I would def recommend this to others!!!
I have been buying Tidy cats for many years, and I still love it as much as I did from my first purchase. The smell is great, it scoops so easy, and the cats really like it too.
This is normally my go-to litter. The smell is usually fantastic and masks the cat odor efficiently. However! I just bought some a week ago from Target and it doesn't smell as it normally does! The smell is so bad it makes me gag when I scoop the litter. It even smells horrible when it's fresh and there's no cat droppings in it. Is it possible for there to be a bad batch, or for the smell to sour? I was actually woken out of a deep sleep by the smell of this (I have a tiny apartment and the cat box is in my room) last night, and felt like puking because it was so bad. I want to continue buying this, but I will be sniffing every jug from now on, and if I can't find one that smells like it used to, I will have to move on!
I've tried the new Glade Tidy Cats litter & I absolutely hate it! It doesn't clump nearly as well as the Multi-Cat litter (with the blue lid) and as a result, the litter gets dirtier much more quickly. I've found that I have to completely change the box about twice as often as before. And I don't find the smell to be any better. If anything, it's worse because the litter is dirtier. I have an unused 35 pound container that's just sitting in my garage, which I will only use in the event of an emergency. I really, really hope that this new product isn't intended to replace the old one, because if so, I'll be shopping for another brand of litter altogether!
I don't use any other litter.  This is the best clumping litter I've tried and the smell is controlled so I don't have to change out the litter all the time.  I scoop and add a little more litter most of the time making cleaning up after my cat a breeze.
I will not use any other brand. I use the Instant Action formula, I don't have the smell that you can get with having 2 cats using one litter box! This is a great product, please, please, please do change anything about it!!
I don't know what you guys did to your litters...all of them...they just don't do it for me anymore.  Up until recently, I loved your products.  Now,  after just one day...the smell, ugh.  Go back to the way it was or I'm simply going to have to try other brands.  I've used the 24/7, Instant Action, the new one with glade...etc.  All of them.  
I have tow female cats and both of them had litter 30 days apart.so now with tow cats and 7 kittens . I got 5bags 40lbs.each.they were at a great price and they are lasting longer then anything els.clean and no smell...need coupon for food and more litter
This is the best cat litter I've found.  It has the least dust and works well with my multiple cat household.  I do buy whatever flavor is on sale.  I don't like the perfume type smell.
I bought this new litter because I love glade products. So glad I did . We have four cats and you could never tell. This litter smells great from the moment you put it in and stays smelling fresh even if the box gets used .
I have tried almost every litter on the market (wood chips, what was I thinking) and found the Tidy Cats 24/7 Performance to be the best working litter for me. Scooping is just easier because it does clump solid and you don't end up with urine soaked litter still in the box. The odor is so minimal and the litter stays fresher and effective after scooping. I use to have to completely dump out the litter box after a week of using some other brand because it would be smelly but not with the Tidy Cats.
I bought this to just try it out and it's the best litter so far. The smell isn't overwhelming and it lasts a long time.
Started using this about 2months now when it started being stocked at my Walmart. I really love the smell when I pour it into the litter boxes very fresh scent. All I buy now instead of the regular tidy cats...
I have 3 inside cats and 6 foster cats (in my spare garage). Basically, this means I am cleaning, filling, and scooping litter boxes A LOT! I have tried many differnt styles and brands over the years.......but I will only use Tidy Cats Litter because it lasts a long time, it smells fresh for a long time, and when you have to scoop it there is virtually no cloud of dust in the air - like many others have. And....the price of Tidy Cats is very reasonable. Plus, the larger quantity comes in a reusable bucket which is good around the house for other things.
I have always had cats. I have used nearly all the brands of litter out there and Tidy Cats works best in my opinion. It clumps best and stays together best. Then - I accidentally bought the glade kind - and when I poured it in the litter box - I was like, "woah! What's this??" It smelt wonderful. ... and STAYED smelling wonderful. The cats had the best smelling room in the house while I used this! I wanted some more but the store was out when I bought more. Will try again next time.
I too am disappointed in the litter..I have 6 cats and when I used to use this you couldn't smell anything and cleaning the boxes was a breeze,but now it just isn't doing the job..The 20lb bag I get at Freds for $5 clumps better than this..Ever hear of the old saying if it ain't broke don't fix it
I have been using this litter for 12 years with every cat I have had. I tried the other brands that claim to be the best but nohe stack up to the greatness of tidy cats. I wouldn't use any other litter ever for my cats. My biggest issue with most cat homes is it smells like a cat is there with this litter you can't even tell a cat lives there the odor is masked so perfectly and that helps with the cleanings as well.
I saw this new line of Tidy Cats litter and I love glade scents so I thought, "why not give it a shot." I've been using the Instant Action one for a while and it does a good job. At first pour, the aroma is quite nice. But as soon as one of my cats uses the box, the smell of the glade just mixes with the smell of the feces and it is horrendous! I went from scooping my cat boxes twice a day to about five times a day because of this. It does nothing to mask the odor, in fact I believe it enhances it. I would not buy this type of litter again.
I have nine cats with numerous litter boxes. I will only use tidy cat in their boxes. It is great for clumping and takes away the smell. I have tried others and none compares to Tidy Cat.
I HAVE BEEN BUYING TIDY CAT FOR A LONG TIME AND WOULD LIKE TO KNOW WHY YOU HAVE CHANGED YOUR FORMULA BECAUSE MY CATS HAVE NOTICED THE DIFFERENCE IN THE SMELL OF THE LITTER. SO WHEN I OPEN THE LITTER FOR THE FIRST I LEAVE THE LID OFF TO LET THE SMELL OR FRAGRENCE OUT OF IT. I USED TO USE THE BLUE CAP AND NOW I USE THE RED CAP AND HAVE TO PUSH BACK THE OLD LITTER THEN ADD THE NEW AND COVER IT WITH THE OLD BEFORE MY CATS WOULD USE IT.
I have purchased Target brand cat litter for years but last year they changed their brand and it was terrible! So I started using Tidy Cat and liked the fact that it controlled order and most importantly it was low in DUST, (one of my cats has allergies). When the new Glade formula came out I had to try it and it was amazing and smelled great! Thank you so much!
I have used this product before and decided to use Arm & Hammer then went back to Tidy Cats because of the price. This litter has a problem clumping. When I scoop the #1 from the litter box it falls apart- not all of it- but most of it and it leaves bits and pieces of #1 in the cat box. This ends up leaving the cat box smelling only after a 2 days. I love how large the pellets are with this litter but it doesn't due justice. For some reason it doesn't hold well and it doesn't cover the scent of #2 very well. When I go to scoop the #2 I noticed that the litter doesn't attach itself to the problem at all- leading me to believe that it doesn't clump as well as it should. I decided to try it and I won't use it again. I will go back to paying a little more for better results.
Exposed to this product originally through the pet rescue organization I work with. I usually stay away from perfumy litters - but I've gotten used to this one. It is very effective when maintaining a litter box with six or more kittens! Only problem, now that I'd like to use it for my own cats... my local grocer doesn't carry it, PetsMart had it - but doesn't anymore, WalMart only has it sometimes (would like the PowerBlend even more if they could keep it in stock). If I have a choice between the TCw/Glade or PowerBlend - I'd pick PowerBlend every time, even if its more expensive.
I have 3 cats and I had switched to another brand the said it was the best in odor control. Well, I had always used Tidy Cats and I switched just to see.... what a shocker this other liter, name brand as well, was horrible!! I had to clean kitty box out several times a day to keep up with the odor and it was not very good at clumping. Sorry, Tidy Cats, I will never doubt you again! In addition, this new Glade tough odor... LOVE IT!!!! Clumps great and no smell, even if I forget to clean the box of a day!! Only down side is, my cats track it all over, but a small price to pay for no odor, in an apartment!!
I have purchased this same cat litter in the store many times. This is so convenient to have the heavy boxes delivered right to my doorstep. Beats lifting them in the cart, out of the cart, back in the cart, back out of the cart,and then lugging them into the house. Arrived in perfect condition. Will definitely purchase this product online in the future.
Tidy Cat help me to be a happy cat owner. Price is reasonable and it does the job. Clumping action is what I want and that is just what Tidy Cat gives me! I have tried other cat litters, but bar none Tidy Cat is absolutely the BEST!
Been using Tidy cats litter for 15 years for my 6 cats. never had a problem with the product and it works wonderful. With prices going up I'll wait till it's on sale and grab 6 of them. Always been a solid product, which you can't say about alot of products out there today.
Far less dust then the red lid which is what we were after. The clumping is very good. It still tracks out on their paws but it's about the best one we've found so far.
I have used this product for years and am very pleased with it, especially since it doesn't cause hardly any dust. However, I have quite a few cats and would love to try the clumping but the cost is too high.
I love that it is not an overwhelming scent, as some of my cats don't like that, but all seem to love this product and I find the odor control is excellent. it is often on sale and has coupons which make it a good value.
I have tried other litter in the past and have totally despised them. Tidy Cats litter with the red lid is the best hands down. It clumps well, it's easy to scoop, I love it, and my 6 little fur-kitty's love it too. Thank you for being the best!
I will highly recommend Tidy cats to all the cats parents ,if you have cats you should have Tidy cats performance ,my cats love it so do I .In 6 years we did try only two three times other brands but all of them are really don't match the tidy brands ,once you use it you will never buy anything else .Excellent  product .
I've used this for years but obviously the formula has changed. I've now tried two other brands that both the cats and I love. I'll never go back to this litter.  You should have left it alone. It used to work great. Now it doesn't clump or scoop and I clean the boxes daily.   I'd give this zero stars if I could!
We switched brands over 2 years ago and haven't looked back. Tidy Cats does an amazing job in our house for our 2 cats. They are also the only ones that consistently offer coupon savings. We love TIDY CATS!
I have 5 kitties and use this is all the kitties' littler boxes. It does a decent job of controlling odor, but it seems the particles are finer, littler is more easily tracked from the litter box and creates more dust than it used to do. Less dust would be wonderful and well as less tracking. And, it's gotten to be a little expensive; less expensive would also be wonderful, especially since I have 5 kitties and usually buy this in 40# quanitites.
We have 10 litter boxes and are very careful to keep them all clean. About six weeks ago we noticed the new Tidy Cats with Glade at our local PetSmart store. We have used Tidy Cats for well over ten years. We are so impressed with this new litter we have since purchased twice more. It does a superior job controlling odor. We purchase twice a month, about 80 # each time so this is a significant, ongoing purchase for us that we will continue to buy!
I tried this out a couple weeks ago and it's the best odor fighting litter.  Cleaning the litter boxes isn't gag inducing anymore!
i like the no fragrance for my cats. tried other brands through the years and yours is the best. please send me a coupon.
I had a coupon so I tried TIDY CATS... I have 4 cats and usually use Arm & Hammer. My cats like it.. I just wish there were more coupons offered - litter can be so expensive.. especially when you have 4 CATS and have to refill so often. But the moral of the story is - Highly recommend!! :)
We have 6 cats (and a Labrador Retriever), so cleaning litter boxes is a big deal for us.  We have tried store brands, bargain brands and other name brands, but they don't clump well and sure don't contain odors. Why abandon a good thing?  We always come back to Tidy Cat.  And I always check the paper for coupons and stock up!
we have 8 cats,and have tried other litters when we can't find our..I don't like any other litter,they don't control odor as well and are not as easy to clean out of the boxes as well..this is our pick
This is the best for your cat litter boxes
I have not tried this new Tidy Cat formula of cat litter but I am sure it will work great. I buy Tidy Cat Scoopable Litter from time to time and I certainly will try this one. I will give this product a 4 star review because I'm sure it will stand up to the Tidy Cat products.
I have 2 cats and this works great. I'm always buying it when it's on sale so I always have some on hand.
Strangley enough, no one has ever professionally rated Cat Litter - not even Consumer Reports. After digging around for ages this is what I have discoevered. Your "Top Rated" cat litter is going to be some never-heard-of brand organically made that costs $50 for a handful of the stuff. We are not interested in that stuff. Tidy Cat and Fresh Step litters are the best rated all around for 1 Dust, 2 Scoopability, 3 Odor Control, 4 Price. Both rank so high amongst users, they really stand out from the rest. I like Tidy Cat for its LOW DUST, easy plastic container opposed to the carboard box and the fact that it is almost always deliverable by online stores. As for odor control - Fresh Step is more personally pleasing but Tidy Cat does have decent odor control. Though I have never used it, I understand that Sam's Club brand litter is quite superior but hard to find. Personally, I believe Menards Master Paws Scoopable Cat Litter is THE best, unfortunantly you can only find it at Menards and Menards does NOT deliver this item - store pick up only. The complete inconvienance of these DAY HIKES, often unstocked shelves, and long lines makes these 'superior' litters a LOT less unattractive to users Tidy Cat, with it's low cost, easy plastic contianer, high ratings across the board, deliverability, and availability --- makes Tidy Cat an all around BEST BUY.
I switched to this from the clumping and it is great. With 3 large indoor cats, the cost of litter was getting high, but with the switch it has been so worth it. Thank you!
I got this the first time from SAM's club, I am glad I did, this is the best one so far out of the Tidy CAT litters. I have 3 cats (had 4) all using 1 box that is scooped several times a day, but there is never an odor when you come home, not like there used to be before changing to the glade tidy cat litter. I will never change litter again.
I fought for about a year to figure out why my cat would sometimes use the area just outside the box instead of inside the box. Then I realized she would only totally go inside the box if I used Tidy Cat Scoopable Litter. So whenever I'm tempted to try something new or cheaper, I remember Sassy only likes Tidy Cat!!!
I have an automatic litter box. Tidy Cats is the best clumping and best odor killing brand by far for my cats. We were ALL very unhappy when I tried any other brand. We all have made our choice..Tidy Cats!
I have tried this litter for a couple months now. I do not think it clumps very well, in fact when i go to scoop the clumps fall apart. This litter does not keep the odor even to a minimum after the first week. I have two cats and two litter boxes and i will not be buying this again.
I decided to try this formula since the store was out of the "small spaces", and i've been very happy with it, so much so that i went back and bought 4 more of the large buckets.
I use the buckets, easy for this 61 yr. old man to handle. This product allows adequate clumping for multiple cats. I've tried others, but would not use anything else.
NOT SURE WHAT HAS CHANGED, WE HAVE BEEN USING THIS FOR THE SERVERAL YEARS AND BEEN VERY HAPPY - WE HAVE TWO CATS AND NOW ALL OF A SUDDEN OUR PICKY CAT DOES NOT LIKE THIS LITTER. WHAT DID YOU CHANGE IN THE FORMULA OR IS IT LESS GRANULAR?
I have always used the Tidy Cat clumping litters in my home as I run a foster care program for All God's Creatures. I tried other litters or had them donated to me and I found that some turned to mud in the litter box, others did not clump and stay together. I just recently started using the Tidy Cats Glade Tough Odor and I am recommending it to everyone I know. When asked by adopters what litter I use or I feel is the best, I always recommend the Tidy Cat brands.
I have two cats that pretty much have a waste output of four. I've tried so many different brands in an effort to save a couple bucks. That effort usually ends up wasting money on inferior litters and going back to Tidy Cats. Bottom line is, you get what you pay for-Tidy Cats is worth every penny!
my husband and i are very happy with this product because its the only kind of litter our cat likes we tried other kind of litter in the past bust she refused the litter box so we went back to tiddy cat
I buy this ltter no matter if it is on sale or not, I hve used other litters this one is the very best!!!!
I have been using Tidy Cats for about 20 years now....have tried other products when on sale...but always to back to Tidy Cats red.  Hands down the best!
I have used Tidy Cats for many, many years. Once or twice I have tried a store brand or a different brand. Always came back to Tidy Cats. I wouldn't use anything else. We have three litter boxes.
I was excited to try this lightweight litter but immediately regretted the purchase.  My two girls had no problem with the switch. It clumps great,  has good odor control and really is lightweight,  but the dust storm from scooping is horrible.  I noticed my two year old cat sneezing a lot after we started using this litter. I can't imagine that being good for my cats' respiratory system.  <br/><br/>I just purchased the Tidy Cats Breathe Easy.  The girls used their boxes as soon as I filled them and virtually no dust.  Hopefully the clumping and odor control is just as good.
it was a gift and bought it on my own and I would buy it again. Great value, ordor control, only have to change litter once a week with the bags I got and this litter.
Tried this thinking it would smell great, but am disappointed with it. Doesn't clump well at all, and one of my cats started peeing outside the box:( Will go back to the original.
I've been using this for years.  I love it because it doesn't leave a trail of dust and clumps really well as compared to other brands I have used.  It really absorbs the smell, and best of all the litter doesn't get stuck in my cat's paw pads to be trailed around the house.  I also use the 24/7 and both work great!
We have 4 cats that range in age from 6 months to 13 years and with the age range comes a lot of bad smells. We keep all our litter boxes in one room and it was just over powering before I tried this product. We no longer have the "cat box" smell but a fresh clean smell that even cover the stinkiest box orders!
I have been using this product forever, Its great!! I have to adult cats, big boys and you can not tell I have any cats because there is no smell at all. Why dont you ever offer coupons anymore? My only complaint!!
I absolutely love this letter...and so does my cat. Great smell, low tracking...it's got it all. 
I have been using Tidy Cat products for over 30 years and this formula is no longer satisfactory. It clumps only a small amount of urine and it does NOT hide the smell, perhaps because the urine cannot be removed. The other, more expensive types of Tidy Cat are better. I wish all of Tidy Cat's products worked equally.
Bought this litter and surprised that it absorbs the smell quickly. It also is very easy to clean
I love Tidy Cats litter and thought I'd try the Glade version. HORRIBLE. The litter box always smells dirty and just leaves a stale smell even after I've cleaned it. The regular (without the Glade) is MUCH better.
I bought this cat liter last week and it smell fresh all week long.
I tried this litter and I DO NOT like the way it smells. I thought it would be great, so I bought two large containers.
I bought this a while back and still prefer the original Blue label product. I don't like how this smells. Although I do love the Glade products too. I just don't like them together.
We bought this product once and it was great! When back and purchased another bucket, but new one had an overwhelming rancid scent. When used in the kitty box the entire house smelled like it.  Horrible! Even deep cleaning carpets, cat box, and walls didn't diffuse the aroma. 
We/ve been buying this type of litter for a long time and no one who comes into our house would ever suspect we have two cats. I scoop it once a day and wash the box thoroughly and replace all the litter every five to six weeks. We have two happy cats and a happy me because my house doesn't smell like cat litter.
My cat goes in the morning and late at night.  The urine clumps very nicely and there is no smell at all.  I have tried other Tidy Cat products but this one really does the job for my cat and it is so easy to clean up.
Put Tidy Cat litter into litter box just this Saturday - will not use again.   The glade smell is overpowering and sickly.   Clumps well but will not use unless the Glade smell is reduced or changed.
I bought a small jug of this because I initially liked the smell. After using it, I don't care for it at all. It does what it is supposed to, but once the glade smell mixes with cat urine it is just plain awful. Tidy cat is the only litter I buy and am very happy with it. I will continue to use it but with out the extra Glade in it.
I have four cats of different varieties and after purchasing the Tidy Cats with Glade it has been a whole different experience for us and the cats. The added scent keeps the box and room smelling fresh. This is a great product!
Have been using for months now.  The smell is amazing it kills the cat odors when your scooping the box! I have recommended this to my family and friends!
Bought this the first time over a year ago. Both are indoor/outdoor cats, but the youngest has decided she likes the indoor best. Poops and pees ALOT!!!!. Never a smell in the laundry room. Have tried other brands but do not perform like Tidy Cat.
I've tried other brands, but Tidy is the only one that's proven to work. Can't smell a thing & I've one litter box near the front door!
I bought this and am able to scoop out the used litter daily and keep the rest of the litter in the pan for up to 2 weeks and it still smells as if it was just put in there that day! I totally love this product! Its amazing!
Regardless of my opinion of the dust levels, their is rarely a smell left behind unless one of the cats has just used the box or it wasn't changed recently enough. On a fun note, I tried switching once to a store brand and both cats pooped on the floor. They made their preference well known!
This is a nicely clumping and smelling cat litter that I have used for a long time. It is my favorite and my cat seems to like it too.
I've had cats for thirty years, and currently have four, with three litterboxes. Tidy Cats Instant Odor Control had been my only brand for about ten years. Then I tried Cats Pride Complete in one litterbox because of the lower cost at Wal Mart. Judging from the amount of use each box gets, the cats prefer the Cats Pride to the Tidy Cats Instant Odor Control about three to one. When I put this new Dual Power version in the two Tidy Cats Boxes, they prefer the Cats Pride about ten to one. The new blend is too strongly scented. It smells good, but strong, even for me, so I don't think it's too good for the cats, and apparently, neither do they. One thing: a couple who saw me buying the Cats Pride said that they had tried it but they thought that the clumps were bigger, so that they had to use more. I do agree with that, which might be more of a consideration for a family with only one cat and one litter box. For me it's a tossup. I buy more Cats Pride, but less Tidy Cats because the cats use the Cats Pride box more.
I never (really, never) leave reviews for things, but this new "scent control" was so bad that I had to share this. First, I really appreciate Tidy Cats brand clumping cat litter. By far, the Tidy Cats brand provides *the best* overall clumping cat litter on the market. BUT, this new brand - Tidy Cats Glade Tough Odor Solutions - is the worst smelling litter I've ever used. Out of the box it smells funny, and after use it smells worse. Rancid is what comes to mind. I bought this particular "version" because it was new and we were about to go out of town for a week. We came home to a unpleasant smell thinking it was the fact that the two-litter boxes (one cat) was the cause. I cleaned the boxes out (there was still plenty of fresh litter available), but the next day the house smelled funny again. It was definitely the litter. The 24/7 performance version is the best of what they have to offer, and I will recommend this to anyone. This new "Glade" collaboration is something to avoid.
This product does not clump like it used too. I have multiple cats and have used it for years. Now you can smell the litter box as soon as you walk in the door! Very aggravating when you have a great product then for some reason you change it and it is not as good as before. Guess, I'll have to find another brand to buy.
I have 3 cats in a small house and I love this huge tub of litter. It lasts a long time, it's economical, controls the smell, and when I change out the boxes, there's not as much dust as with other litters,
I have 4 cats. As much as I try to keep the boxes clean, the house always smells like "cat." I've only purchased one of the tubs of the Tidy Cat with Glade, but I love it. My mom came over to my house today and commented that for the first time in years, the house doesn't smell like "cat." I like the fragrance and the clumping power. I'll definitely buy this again.
yes was very unhappy with this new litter.  We use another type of tidy cats, but this new lightweight smelled after one day and it sticks to my cats like Styrofoam. on top of all that is was $4.00 higher than the normal litter I purchase.
I am just so pleased that I could get it on line for the same price that I paid for it at the store and get it delivered to my front door. The FedEx man even set it inside my door for me. I am a senior and on a very tight budget!
I thought because it by Tidy Cats it would be as good as cutting odors as other Tidy Cat products but it doesn't. The litter works well except for the odor control. I ordered this online and when it got to my home the box was filled with litter and half the litter in one container was in the box the lid of the container off. I was very disappointed in the shipping of the item.
best litter we bought no oders clumps great has a good price
There is only one tidy cats product that really works (the immediate odor clumping) and special kitty kicks it's butt! In price and quality it is the best litter I have ever used.
This litter is always great. I wish there were more coupons to bring the price down but we do consider it the Cadillac of litters.
I have tried some of the other Cat Litters but always come back to Tidy Cats. For the price and quality Tidy Cats works the best.
Price at grocery and discount/retail stores fits my budget.
Easy to use and packaged well...and good price is one has a coupon.
2 cats, 3 boxes...love this stuff! is comparable to other brands price wise and can always find on sale at PetSmart! 
I currently have 5 cats and have been using this style of liter for years now and I think it works pretty good. I do wish there were more coupons for this as I tend to switch to the new Arm & Hammer, Double Duty for a better price or when coupons are available and the cats don't seem to mind it.
I have gone through a lot of different brands and kinds of litter for my cats and this is better than the others I have had to use since my favorite is no longer available. There is little to no dust, makes a hard clump and does control the odors very well. I have 15 cats and it is important to keep them clean and the house nice. This is doing its job. Some litters actually created odor! This is good and the containers can be reused for other storage.( not food)
I compare when I shop, sometimes to the point of using a calculator to determine the best value, and I've yet to find a better litter for the price. I typically buy this in the 40# bucket, which is usually the lowest price per pound, plus I get a great bucket! I've been using this product for years, and I don't think one can go wrong buying and using "Tidy Cats."
This litter has been a staple in my multi-cat home. There is NO odor. You wouldn't know cats are in the house. It is slightly dusty, but most of the litters I've tried are.
I did not realize how dusty this product is.  I am wondering if another TIDY cat litter is less dusty.  I had to move a litter box to a bedroom by a window and when I was carefully putting the litter in the box - dust was flying.  Has this product changed??  Is there another product that would have less dust.  I don't believe the 99.6% dust free anymore.
I have 5 cats and use Tidy Cats 24/7 in three litter pans and find it still to be the best available. As long as i keep up with the scooping, I do not experience any oder problems. There is also very little dust. I am very happy with your product and it's made my job a lot easier.
This litter has great clumping which makes litter clean up so much easier. Also, there is little or no dust with this....I found that other popular name brand products leave a dust residue in the air which is very unpleasant.  Wish is had a bit more odor killing punch, but overall, a very good product...the one I purchase most often.
I have 6 cats.....5 are rescue.....I love this product!!!! Zero odor
excellent with odor control. Not too dusty. would recommend
I used to use Arm and Hammer, but it did not keep the odors at bay.  With Tidy Cats for Multiple Cats, I don't worry about that.  There is absolutely no odor.  I have not found anything better.  LOVE IT!!!
Have tried other brands and just cannot get the same results. Other brands have more dust, less clump, and do not control odor as long. Found my way back and plan to stay with you!!
I have several cats and i buy this cat litter all the time.  I love the easy to carry handle, the screw top lid, the clumping ability and odor control.  Now, if i could just get all the cats to cover up their "deposits" when they use the box!!
Does very well on clumping. Okay on odor control. Tracking is awful. And I don't understand how it can say 99.6% dust free. It is not at all dust free!! Thought at first maybe it was just the first couple I bought. But no, every single one so far has been highly dusty. And we are on about our 6th jug or maybe more.
Love this litter I'm a 2nd generation user and I think this is the best stuff 3 cats no problem!
I am a sphynx breeder (hairless cats) and use A LOT of litter. I have tried every conceivable type of litter out there, including corn, wheat, recycled-newspaper, crystals, non-clumping, clumping, self-scooping...you name it, I've tried it. I always come back to Tidy Cats and recommend all my buyers use it too. It out-performs all other brands I've tried. My cats love it too. Buy with confidence.
As this is a Tidy Cat clumping product, I love it equally as much as the Instant Action version. I will buy it whenever it is on sale, I have a coupon for it, or is cheaper than other brands. Tidy Cat is my favorite brand.
With 21 cats and 11 litter boxes, I found this to be the best of the Tidy Cat litter family. My cats had no problem using it, and the Glade scent isn't overpowering. Only wish this and the other 2 types of Tidy in the 35lb buckets were less dusty...again with 11 litter boxes, there's a lot of digging going on in my place!
We've been using Tidy Cat for years and we love it!  I'm very grateful that the perfumes used aren't too strong, otherwise I'd have to change products as I have an extreme sensitivity to them.  Thank you, Tidy cat!
I have tried several different brands over the years. Tidy Cat is the best I have found. The Glade scent is good at keeping the odors down with 5 cats using it. Also not as much dust is kicked up when used or cleaned.
I've used this litter for several years now. The clumping action makes it so easy to keep the litter box clean and the instant odor control works great!! I love it!!! My cat loves it!!! Couldn't be any better!!!
I prefer and depend on the Tidy Cat 24/7, when I had two cats and now that I have one. I am glad the dust has reduced. I have tried others, and switched back immediately. 
All the Tidy Cats products are great because they have low dust. I love the new Glade scented Tidy Cat product. It has better odor control than the other Tidy Cat Products and remains fresh until the next change of litter.
I like the odor control of this product, but it doesn't seem to clump as well as it used to and it seems to have more dust. Has it changed?
I have been using Tidy Cats clumping litter for over a year. My cats and I love the new Glade fragrance. I have 12 cats, and with regular scooping there is very little odor. My only problem is that it does not go on sale very often. It is expensive.
I was surprised to read some of the recent reviews about the urine not clumping well. Unless my PetSmart just hasn't gotten new shipments yet, mone still seems to be clumping as well as always. My male cat will scratch at the litter to the point where he can break up clumps, but for the most part they seem to stay intact. My cats definitely like it better than other brands though, and I think the dust factor is much lower than most.
I have tried other litters that are cheaper or are supposed to work better and I always come back to Tidy Cats because it works the best. It makes clean up easy and quick.
I have used Tidy Cat for many years, I have 7 cats from ages 9 years to 12 Nothing works like Tidy Cat litter. It is a real odor!. I just wish you would send more coupons with 7 cats and all the litter I have to buy it sure would help. I am always getting coupons on Arm and Hammer, but they end up in the trash as Tidy Cat is all I buy. Thank you
We have 5 cats and 5 boxes and this stuff makes mud in every box. I clean them every morning and see no clumping at all! It does control odors, but is too hard to scrape out of the bottom of the pan. Threw out the last $2 off coupons because it was not worth it.
We have a small cat rescue and have used MANY different litters over the yrs. This by far is the best we've ever used and will continue to do so. I wish there were more coupons for it though!!!! :)
I have tried the other types of TC and this seems to work the best for my 4 cats. Clumps really well and keeps the odor down. I would also add that I would like more coupons.
Your LightWeight litter is fantastic!!   The only problem I have is your price!!  Why is it $5.00 more than the regular Tidy Cats formulas?  Also, I haven't seen one coupon in my area!!
Great for mult-cat households. I have 4 and it works great on the odour issues.. My only beef is it tracks very badly compared to Arm and Hammer.
I have a lot of cats so we of course go through a lot of cat litter.  I was not all that impressed with the multiple cat litter maybe for two cats but anymore it can't keep up.  It clumps but doesn't seem to sift or scoop well, always having to scrap dried litter off the filter. Yuck! Would recommend if only a few cats.  I have bought and used five of these tubs and they all worked the same. Maybe a bad batch or maybe there is just something out there that is better for a large number of cats. Thanks 
I have been buying Tidy Cat for a long time. I have had multiple cats several times and it works great. Its one of the litters my cat doesn't mind using. have used other brands and she literally snubs her nose at it
I'm sorry, but, I tried Tidy Cats litter and hated it. Unless I remove the 'clumps' DIRECTLY after each use, it completely funks up whatever space I have the litter box in. This is really a problem because I'm at work 8 hrs a day, by the time I come home, the whole house reeks. I used it for maybe a week, just couldn't take the constant scooping/ funk.
The two pack is much more cost effective and the product works great.
I changed from World's Best to Tidy Cats because of the cost, as I have 4 cats. Tidy Cats works fairly well. My only real problem is when my cat kicks it out after using the restroom. That litter goes everywhere and its a pain to vacuum.
I love this litter and I'm glad I was one of the testers you chose to test it.  It is finally in my area and I bought some today, but I am very disappointed that it is almost double the price of your other products for the same size jug.  Worth it?  Probably, because last week I bought the jug of Tidy Cats Active litter, and I absolutely hate it.  So very glad when I went back today, LightWeight was available!!!!  :) :) :)
I bought this product in the hopes it would control order better, I work from home and the litter box is in my office, well need I say more. IT WORKS!
I was surprised how well it worked that I went back to buy more!
I have three cats that are pooping machines. Tidy Cats (Instant Action, Multiple Cats) is the ONLY litter that works in my household. I have purchased other brands on sale to try them out and nothing stands up to or even compares to Tidy Cats!
I used Tidy Cat years ago, it worked good so never thought about using anything else. My cat passed on so no longer needed litter. Now years later, I have 1 adult cat and two new babies. Without giving consideration to quality I just purchased what was cheaper. Without saying, I'm back to Tidy Cat Instant Action Clumping, the only thing that would be any better would be Nothing!
I can't afford the extra price so I guess I'm stuck lugging the regular Tidy Cats litter. It's not as if I don't have to use as much or it lasts twice as long so the price was a deal-breaker for me and the couple shopping next to me, as well. :(
This is the best out there. I have 2 cats and you can't even tell. It has great clumping action.
We have multiple cats, and the odor is reduced a great deal. When we have tried other litters, and my cats did not like going into the litter box.
what can I say but what a great product,my cats will only use.
Very very disappointed with this product... I've used tidy cats for years with 3 different cats and had great success, but this past year the urine doesn't clump, makes a huge mess in the liter box when scooping, the Oder is not controlled, and have to change out the liter every 1-2  weeks. 
I have used Tidy Cats for years now & I've tried all the varieties at one time or another.  By far, this is OUTSTANDING!!!!  I have three cats, so I generally scoop litter every day.  I was amazed at how even after a week of scooping, the Glade scent was still as fresh as the first day in the litter box!!!  Purina, you have a winner here!!!  I am thrilled with this one!!!
I have tried them all... This is the best clumping litter. The fresh long lasting scent is exceptional.
I've been using Tidy Cats for years so I decided to try the new one with Glade--wow the fragrance was very strong!! I was afraid my cats wouldn't use it. Luckily they didn't seem to mind but I really prefer the original Tidy Cats for Multiple Cats which seems to control odor without an overpowering fragrance. Will not be buying this one again.
After moving back to the very humid northern florida I had to find a new clumping cat litter.  After several different types I tried the 24/7 performance. Now we have clumping litter again.
I have two very large cats, and they sometimes "overhang" the sides of the boxes, so very quick clumping is important to me.  This is the best product I've found.
I have a multiple cat house and appreciate its value and results.
we buy it all the time. it does what it states on the label.
Doesn't clump like it use to years back hence you need to change it totally more frequently. Having multiple Cats it is much more costly. It is a bit dusty but It does control odor.
I recently bought a 40 lb. bag of Tidy Cats non-clumping litter and while the picture on the bag indicates it to be a coarse litter similar to what I have been using from another manufacturer on opening the bag I found it to be a very fine grained litter which I do not like. I think the picture should match the product inside though if that had been the case I would not have purchased this litter.
I have been buying Tidy Cat clumping litter for as long as it has been available.
I switched to tidy cat years ago and have never wanted to use anything else since
I have been using this product for years and have been generally happy. Occasionally find clumps break up too easily when scooping leaving the dirty litter in box.
I have 7 cats and 5 litter boxes, which I scoop twice a day. I have tried other brands, and this is by far the best I have found. Clumping is very important, and this does not disappoint!!
Mine clumps fine.. I've never had a problem, it is the only litter my cats like and will use.
This litter is the best! I've tried so many over the years, but this one is by far our FAV!! MEOW~~
I have been using this product for years in my multicast household. Went throu a period of trying other products and found my first choice was the best. Tidy Cats 24/7 is the choice for me!
I have been buying this litter for years. This is the best litter ever!
I have 3 older cats and they are pretty picky each has its own litter box.. they like this tidy cat the best and I have tried them all. Thanks tidy cat for making my cats and me happier!
Twelve brands of cat litter were used in the program in addition to an empty litter box. The program lasted a total of 10 weeks. Test cats ranged from one to 12 years of age.   As a result of the cat litter test, every cat in the test found a litter they would use, and every cat was adopted. Cat Depot switched from traditional clay litter to Tidy Cat, the number one cat litter preferred by our finickiest cats. We  sell Tidy Cat in our store, and encourage adopters not to change our cat's litter.
This is the only litter that my two cats will use. If I change the litter at all they start using the bathroom on the stairs of the litter box.
I have been using Tidy Cats for about 8 years now and would not even consider changing brands!
This works so well i find i cannot scoop out the soiled litter! The litter forms into such a hard ball that it sticks to the box and it doesn't bung.Never in my life did i ever think i wouldn't be able to use a litter because it worked too well!I switched to other Tidy Cat litter which works just as well but at least i can scoop.But see for yourself
This is a great product...always works well and keeps the odor to a minimum!  I have even bought other brands (when they go on sale-just to compare) and NOTHING wins over Tidy Cat.  This is the best litter out there!!
I've been using this litter for years and it was great. Now, since the release of a new and «improved» formula, it has been awful. The clumps fall apart messing the whole litter and then have to put more litter and it ends much faster. It doesn't last long, have to spend more money. Sorry, I'm going to switch.
We have tried the others but prefer this the best. and Precious does too.
I buy this every month and I'm happy with tidy cat.
I tried the glad and don't like it . This is the best
I love the glade one. I am trying the 24/7. This is my first kitten in almost 20 years and I found him in my garden July and he was very I'll. He is 5 months old and healthy. I tried fresh step and it did not do what Tidy Cats has done. I was told by many to use it. Buttercup and I love it. I will be trying the lightweight next time.
We have six indoor cats and thought we would never be able to use the clumping litter due to cost....then we tried it! Have never been happier with the performance!
Tidy cats is the only brand we use... But unfortunately we won't try this new light weight litter as its to expensive!!
I got tired of lugging these home in the 100 degree weather, so I ordered a couple of them to qualify for FREE shipping. They arrived just fine and no hassel of carting them through the store, waiting in line, and loading/unloading from the car. Note: I tried ordering the smaller jugs of the same product, but they "exploaded" in the boxes they were shipped in so had to refuse delivery. Order the bigger, sturdier, containers.
I prefer the Tidy Cats Litter with the blue lid, but this one is in second running to it~ I would recommend this if you can't get the blue lid pail of Tidy cats litter. I only purchase Tidy Cats litter because it is the only one that controls odor and keeps my cats from UTI's.
Absolutely love the quality of this product for eliminating litter box odor. Just got two kittens in July, 2013 (born in February, I think) and they both began using this litter box system without a hitch; guessing that is the case because this was their first experience with a litter box system. Pellets definitely a little pricey and replacing the pad should be maintained to control the odor but worth the cost. Kittens do like to play with the individual pellets. Don't know if they are toxic but definitely an oral/dental concern. Hopefully they will outgrow this behavior. Vet recommended this pellet type litter when kittens were spayed/neutered, particularly for males. Coupons available online at Tidy Cats for the Breeze litter system. Walmart price matched when I found an advertised price online for less + used the coupon. I suggest ordering pellets and pads online for store pickup. Thanks Walmart!
Tidy cats litter works great absorbing  and allowing the cat to easily cover there mess and the litter dispels the odor quickly. There is very little dust from this litter and my cats like this litter over other brands that have a perfume smell or bigger grains of clay
I have been using Tidy Cat for years...just bought the litter with Glade and the smell is absolutely disgusting..my whole house now stinks with the awful smell of Glade. What every possessed you to add this scent or any scent for that matter. If you scoop every day, there is no odor so adding Glade was absolutely unnecessary. I am now looking for another brand.
Have a very small apartment so the littler box lives in the bedroom. I have to scoop often since kitty has a kidney issue, but you would never know it was there at all since it absorbs all odors and smells great!
My male cat's urine has a very strong smell to it- he would go in there and we could smell it shortly after.  Tidy Cats products really helped- BUT Tidy Cats with Glade....solved the problem completely!!  My husband will even change the box now! 
We bought this at Sam's Club because they quit selling the non-scooping kind. We were pleasantly and refreshingly surprised. It smells better than all the rest and it clumps better than your other "clumpers". Due to finances, we bought the other Instant Action scoop without Glade. It just doesn't clump fast nor holds together as well as with Glade. We love it!!! And our 2 cats don't mind either! 
My husband and I just started using this litter and it has been great. The odor is significantly less, but it doesn't have that strong kitty litter smell either. We are very happy with it and so are our 2 kitties :)
In the summer not so much litter is needed as all the cats go outside. Winter proves to be far different. 24/7 keeps the laundry room smelling clean and fresh and for me it is very easy clean up!!!!!
The new Glade Tidy Cat Litter is the best! My house has never smelled better, and I have 9 cats!
It no longer clumps urine, which is now dispersed throughout and smells worse than ever. They must have changed the formula. I wish I hadn't bought extra, because now I need to find a new product.
I have liked all tidy cat clumping, but I have to agree that the blue lid tidy cat seems to have changed. It doesn't clump, just stays "muddy". I clean the cat box at least 3 times a day and have enough litter, almost changed brands. My 4 were going other places if I didn't. Now you don't smell the cat box, love it.
I got this last month and my cats love it . it leaves my den smelling good no one would know I have cats I have used the other tidy cat litter but this is the best one yet
I have tried all of these types and they do not do what I need, get rid of the smell. I use Arm and Hammer which does great.
I bought this a couple weeks ago to try it out, and it works wonders for my cats. The glade leaves a fresh smell no matter what they leave behind. I would highly suggest this litter if you have multiple cats.
I bought one bucket of this variety because the red lidded and blue lidded litters didn't control odors very well. My cats adapted to the scent right away. It is a powerful scent when you first portion it out to the litter box but really works to control the urine and feces smell. Thank you - I don't sneeze at this odor.
I recently tried the Tidy Cats with Glade. This product is awesome. Smells great and works hides the odors.
this litter is the best litter available for clumping and hiding oders. We have many cats and you need a product to assist you in keeping your house smelling clean.
I like this one for the way it smells. I've always been a fan of tidy cat and now they have one that gives a nice scent without it irritating my cat's skin. He is very sensitive to litters and tidy cat is the only litter that I will use. Smells great.
I bought the litter with the Glade in it,and it smells good when you first fill the cat box ,but it does not help with odor control after the cat uses it 
The best choice I made. No more strong urine smells!!!!!!
We are a tidy cat house hold we use the multiple cat red cap litter. We tried the  Glade litter and we had  trouble with clumping.  we eventually had to dump out all the boxes and replace with our regular tidy  cat because the smell was horrible. Maybe its not supposed to be used for multiple  cats or we got a bad batch
I love that it doesn't smell like litter..and saves me sprinkling carpet smells all around the box. Now if only it came in summery or holiday smells..
Only litter I have found that controls the odor of my smelly cat. I have three cats total and have never had guest complain of litter box smell. 
The cat box is in a high traffic area of our house. I use the Instant Action Scoop. I don't need to worry that my guest will smelling the cat box. The cats don't have the smell on them like they did when I used another brand. The litter doesn't seem to get tracked around as much ether. You should try this litter.
I have used Tidy Cats for 14+ years. I try to clean out the litter box on a daily basis...but we all know what happens when we get busy. I have noticed that Tidy Cats Glade Tough Solutions keeps its fresh smell...even if it takes me a couple of days to clean up! The clumping seems to be as good as regular Tidy Cats, and the 'dust' has been reduced greatly.  I am very pleased with this product!
I have loved Tidy Cats for my cat's litter box, and the addition of Glade is just a bonus. I have 2 cats, but you wouldn't know it by the smell!
Both of my cats love Tidy Cat clumping formula, as well as my husband and I. We've tried others - didn't like them because of perfumie smell. Will not use any other brands. Thanks Tidy Cat!
i bought this once and it was worthless, told my husband we were never buying it again. he forgot and bought it again -.- all i can smell when i walk into my house is cat urine and feces. i will stick with the regular blue tidy cats
With three inside cats and two spare(sometimes outside) cats, we use tons of litter. Tidy Cats is our choice for all. Friends often comment on the fact that there is never a "cat" smell in the house. Annie, Izzie, Lucy, Callie and Ms. Midgeons all say thanks to a great product.
The "NEW" Tidy Cats that I purchased has the "blue section/bubble" at the lower left side of the container that states Tough Odor SOLUTIONS. Nothing indicates that there will be a scent. My four cats HATE scented cat litter. My husband asked what the stench was. I had no idea what he was talking about until I entered the hallway where the x-tra large cat pan is placed. It smelled like a chemical. My daughter noticed that two cats were prowling the house and one of them started to urinate in the corner. After retrieving the Tidy Cat container from the recycling bin, I read in very small print on the side "Glade Clear Springs scent". After signing on this site, I noticed that the new containers reflect the fact that it is scented. I would not recommend this to anyone, due to the odor/chemical smell. My husband described it as "sour vinegar".
I live in a small apartment and have been struggling with finding a litter that better masks the smell of the litter box.  And FINALLY I find that in the Glade solutions! I thought I would never find a litter that worked! Hallelu!
Visited my son and he was using Tidy Cats with Glade.Loved how it worked,smelled and controlled odor.Long time user of another litter and switched as soon as I came home.Love it!!!!
ive used all the tidy cats and this by far is the best! completely knocks out that ammonia smell. love the smell of the litter too! ud never know I had a catbox with this litter!
I always look for the blue lid. This one works best or my cat and my house. I have a persian and this litter does not make his fur smell.
I've used this product for 10+ years and I can never smell any cat odor from the litter box. I have 3 cats and it has always worked well.
Tidy Cats with Glade is just what I am looking for in my "house of cats"! I used this product on Thurs., 8-15-13, for the first time. I cleaned and filled two litter boxes and traveled out of state over night. Frankly, I dreaded opening my door to the litter boxes' smell created by my four cats while I was away. Wow!! Was I surprised to NOT enter a dump-smelly house. Instead, I entered a nondump smelling home. Tidy Cats with Glade is an answer to my nose, my cats, and my peace of mind. I am a permanent cat Mother who will purchase your product. Thank you!!!!
Is it just me or this litter changed dramatically?Used to be my fav and past few months ,a year .. is horrible.Will stick to the bottom of litter box , clumps start fall apart when try scoop it .. is just bad smelling in the first day of washing litter box and changing litter ... I would not recommend this to anybody.
This litter is so bad, I came to this site only to warn others against it. Smells awful like nuclear play doh....and doesn't clump on urine. In less than 2 weeks, I've had to completely change all the litter in the box 3 times because scooping doesn't work. Worst litter I've ever used. 
I recently bought several tubs of this for my 5 cats.  It really helps to keep the smell down, better than anything I have ever tried.  I'm actually trying to use up my Tidy Cats 24/7 now so I can get "rid" of it sooner and will buy this new litter only from now on.  I like it that much.  
This litter is the BEST litter I have ever used hands down! It has a light, pleasant scent and even though we have 3 cats, our house doesn't smell like it. This is the only litter I will buy and I highly recommend this product.
I have been using this for about 8 months and it is the best litter I have ever purchased. I love the clumping action and the fact that it covers the odor so that I don't have to smell my two girls' business! Thanks so much for making such great products.
I LOVE Tidy cat! I use the red lid instead of the blue. The red is for long lasting odor control, which I find I need more then just right after they use it. I only have 2 cats but it sure does work great for me and my place doesn't smell like I have cats! WooHoo! A BIG plus for me! =)
I tried it with my girls and did not like it at all.  Extremely dusty,  hated the smell even before the cats used it and it didn't control odors well.  The only good thing was the clumping and light weight.  We've switched to the Tidy Cats Pure Nature and love it.  Smells great,  clumps well, lightweight and controls odors better than any of the clay litters we've tried.
I love tidy cats...the only litter I will ever use. But I think I will pass on the lightweight stuff. <br/>I love the small spaces- the smell is so nice! But I usually get the 24/7 stuff. <br/><br/>Also, I accidentally bought the non clumping a few months ago...and was actually impressed with it! ;)
Good luck! I have one cat, but a very small space. I think tidy cats works best for my situation generally, but after a few days of daily scooping, I had to add more litter to the pan to help dull the smell. I really can't stand to have my home smell like cat, so ill pro ably mix the lightweight with regular litter for now, then switch back.
We love the original Tidy Cats litter -- BUT we hated the lightweight!!  DUST everywhere, and it smells like Fabreze or something -- awful if you have any kind of sensitivity or allergies and I can't imagine the cats liking it!!  We dumped out the whole thing and started over with the original weight Tidy Cat.  Waste of $12.99!!
My local Walmart is carrying the new Tidy Cats LightWeight for the same price as the regular red top 24/7 formula ($7.99 for a 20 lb. jug).  It looks and smells like the reg litter and it's definitely easier to handle, but I noticed one draw-back the very first time my cat tried the new litter.  It's so light, that it sticks to his fur.  It brushed right off, but he tracked it all down the stairs before I noticed it was clinging to his fur.  A short-hair cat probably wouldn't have that problem, but it sure made a mess with my long-haired cat.  :(
I bought this week and it does what it says at first i wasnt sure but i figured anything was better than what i was smelling. But the clumps are tight like it says the smell isnt offensive and im not getting the dust in my nose or mouth i live in an apartment and when i came home i didnt smell the box when i came in. I scoop once aday before work and its not a daunghting task anymore, i mean im not excited about the litter scooping but im not scared or put it off because of the offensive ammonia smell or cat poo odor, if you scoop it right you get all the urine out and poo and left behind is useable litter and you just add more as you go. Great stuff im happy!
Love it! The price is good, the product is great, & we love the buckets! reuse for all kinds of things.
I have 2 full grown kitties and this litter works better than any litter in its price range!!
I've been buying this litter for some time and I think it works very well for my two cats and me. There's virtually no cat odor, the litter itself has a nice scent. It is kind of dusty but the clumping ability is good and it's reasonably priced.
I have been using this litter for years in a home with 3 cats.  Allows me to clean the litter pans quickly and easily.  Great product with a great price.  
Have used the more expensive Power Blend in the past with my 5 cats. Was pleasantly surprised that is new Dual Power works even better and costs less.
Love the clumping thing. Thus Scoops with ease. Friends Ask "Do You Really Own Two Cats ?" And Received an additional discount at store pick up, due to store price drop
I was happy to be able to order this via walmart.com. I live overseas and the availability of cat litter is marginal. I am happy with the litter as well as the shipping! thanks!
I have tried all of the Tidy Cat litters and I always come back to this one. It works well and my cat seems to like it, too.
It's the most reasonable priced cat litter out there making it cost effective. I really like the scoopable/ clumping factor. Plus the idea of coming up with fragrant litter is easy on the nose..
Grabbed this product by accident while I was stocking up on litter for our 4 male cats and 4 foster kittens. I LOVE, LOVE, LOVE this product. I could scoop thru the litter and still breathe at the same time. How can I get coupons for this?
I have tried other cat litters and well they make my house stink. I've used tidy cats for 11 yrs. I LOVE IT!!!
There have, always, been cats in the house and none have ever not taken to using the boxes. Only issue is the dust that builds up in the room where the boxes are located. May try one of the other Tidy Cats products.
We have 10 cats; 2 with serious allergies and Tidy Cats has minimal dust when pouring and scooping than most of the other brands and at a cost we can afford. Plus, it clumps better.
I have a housefull of cats of all ages from elder seniors to 2 years of age. I find that the buckets with the blue label of 24/7 works best for my large litter boxes. It is to be more dust free than Fresh Step and lasts longer as far as odor control is concerned.
No other cat litter will ever enter my house. My cats and I absolutely love the Tidy Cats Glade clumping litter. It's now a pleasure to clean up the "meatballs" left behind in the litter box.
I have three cats and use lots of Tidy Cat. I don't find it dusty as others mention.
I love this litter, while I only have one indoor kitty-this is by far her favorite litter. It clumps quickly and hides almost all of the odor! It is great in my small apartment. I also love that it comes in a handled jug that is easy to pour from.
I have not found a better litter... My cats won't use anything else! We love it! It has a few set backs but the pros far outweigh the cons!
We love Tidy Cats because it clumps great and there is no odor! We've tried several other brands but nothing works like Tidy Cats!
I have been using Tidy Cats liter for years, I like it best of any other brands.  There is not so much dust and clumping is great.  I'm a true cat lover since I have 3 indoor cats .
My current cat really prefers Tidy Cat, and so do I! It does a great job controlling odors. What I'd really like to see from the Purina company, though, is less reliance on the big plastic pails. What a waste of a non-renewable natural resource!
I love this product for my 2 adult cats,but wonder why stores charge more for it?
Use this product all of the time and love it! Would highly recommend!
Love it! Does a great job, little bit on the expensive side!
My Cats have been using Tidy Cats Clumping litter for a very long time. I've tried other brands but my cats wouldn't use the other brands. We are pretty happy with it the only thing I wish could be fixed is that it is Still a dusty litter. I can't have it in any of the bedrooms due to the dustiness. Other than that we are happy!
Easy to use pails GONE from Kmart.  I am very disgusted and frustrated with the annoyance these new bags cause me.  I have to clean and wash my 4 litter boxes for my 7-cats to maintain their well-being.  It's bad enough inhaling this litter refilling my cat boxes weekly.   What's with the EXTRA dust this particular litter possesses now?
I absolutely love this product! I have tried every kind of tidy cat litter, so of course when this one came out I had to try it as well.
My 3 cats love this litter - I swap around and try any new tidy cat litter that comes out because I know I'll love it.
Tidy Cats Instant Action is the ONLY cat litter I use in my home. Sure I've tried others and they CANNOT compare to Tidy Cat. I love to hear from people that come into my home and say they didn't know I had cats - there is no odor! Makes this human mom proud.
I purchase what she likes, and she loves Tidy Cats! It doesn't stick to her feet like other brands and makes cleanup easy.
I love the Instant Action litter the most. I have four litter boxes in a one bedroom apartment and there is no odor what so ever. Being a good cat mommy helps when scooping as soon as possible. But even when i don't get the chance, the odor is controlled right away.
I like this product as far as scent.  The clumping is ok, still not hard enough for most of the urine.  It also has a great deal of dust when first filling the box.
I have 4 full grown cats.  I have a huge liter box that takes an entire 27 lbs jug to fill every week.  I love my cats and they don't appreciate a dirty liter box.  Tidy helps me keep it clean. 
I love it. Seems to keep the odor down and my kitties don't mind the change
I have 9 cats that's right NINE cats!! And you would never know it with our use of the Tidy Cat Scoop for multiple cats. We absolutely love the product. We scoop out all our 6 cat boxes 3 times a day and we are glad that Tidy Cat has such a wonderful product to help keep our cats happy and our human noses happy too :) Thanks for the wonderful product !
I bought this for the first time and I love it. Having 2 kitties that are very particular about their litter they love it!
Great products, Easy to work with, cats love it and I love it.
This really helps with odor control for my two cats in my small house. Love that it is scoopable and easy to clean
My caretakers give me Tidy Cat so I can do my part to keep our house clean. I leave the box relived and without clumps between my claws. And best of all, I don't have a paper trail like that dog has when he uses toilet paper.
Have bought this for year recently it seems hard to clean the litter pan of the clumps but have not given up yet since we do have 2 cats.
Very happy with this scoop litter. Have two large male cats who share litter box. Very good odor control.
I have tried many products and so far the 24/7 clumping litter has the best results for controlling odor and making clean up easier in my multi-cat household. This specific formula is also the only one of the products that does not have a scent that triggers my asthma.
I've been using this product for years with no problems.  The litter clumped and was easy to clean.  The last month or so has been dreadful with hard to scrape mud on bottom and the sides of the box.  No solid clumping anymore.  I'm looking at alternatives until they fix the formula.
I bought this last month and can wait to buy it again he is no odor from my cats litter at all and easy clean up
I only purchase the Tidy Cats Instant Action. It works great and has a pleasant clean scent.
I've been using Tidy Cat Litter for quite some time. At 1 point in time, I had 11 cats and 2 litter boxes and you couldn't even tell that we had so many using the litter boxes. I only have to clean the boxes twice per day and I only have to change the litter once a week.
My cats like clumping litter, but now I mix this with a lighter product
Well, as I mentioned, I haven't tried this particular product of Tidy Cats so other than the price which I thought outrageous at my Wal-Mart when compared with your regular clumping litter, I can't truly comment on it.  I have one short-hair and one medium/long-hair cat.  The med/long-haired one is the one who gets litter kicking happy, and the stuff I had tried--I can't remember the brand but it was supposed to be a "natural" type litter--literally felt like sawdust to me, and it was more tracked all over the house than the regular kind.  Judging by other comments here regarding the Tidy Cats lightweight getting tracked all over the house, I can't say as I'm willing to try it.
I have tried so many litters that I had resigned to the odor never being absorbed. Then, my daughter brought me some of her Tidy Cats and now I never want anything else. Too bad I don't have a printer to get your coupons.
I've tried many other litter brands for my cats (I have 2 cats). I even tried the new Tidy Cats Light Weight Litter. I have to say my preference is the Tidy Cats® Instant Action - Clumping Cat Litter. Great odor control which is important when you have two cats!
I have 4 cats..18, 5, 4, 2...Multi Cat household indeed. I read a review for Ever Green cat litter. I tried it. YUK..right back to Tidy Cat. Why mess a product tried and try?? Coupons.. Never find any of yours however.
Tidy Cats clumping litter is a must for our house.  We have four indoor only cats, and it's the only litter that we've tried that keeps the house odor free.  I decided to try the new Glade litter, and it works great.  The scent is light and pleasant, not over powering, and it does a good job like the other varieties.  Tidy Cats litter is the hardest clumping litter that we've tried, and we've tried all the other main brands.  
easy to work with, lasts longer and my cats are happy...
I have tried literally every litter on the market. I have 8 cats and this litter definitely works best for multi cats.
Amazing litter, controls odor the best of any other kind I've tried. the cats switched without any problems. I was worried they might reject it with the glade. clumps great and easy to scoop, where as other clumping litters stuck to the pan.
I have 10 cats so I need a great litter. Have used it for years, but would like to see it more available in the boxes.
The odor control works great! Would recommend to everyone!
Tried this out last month and I do like it. We have 4 cats and it has been great. Only problem is not all stores are carrying it so having a hard time finding it.
I tried this as soon as it came out. I have multiple cats and works very well with odor control. Tidy Cat Clumping litter is the only brand I will use.
I have been purchasing this brand since I took this cat in and find it be great.
I wouldn't use anything else. GREAT PRODUCT would def recommend!
My cat, Kiki, has asthma (so does Mommy a little) and bladder issues. I've tried several scented litters but she has suffered and so have I. This litter is wonderful! It keeps the odor down but it doens't have a heavy scent so neither of us are suffering. Great product!
I have tried many other brands but this is the only one that works for my cats. I can even skip a day and not have to worry with odor. With 3 cats ( I used to have 7), it works the best for easy scooping and odor control.
Even on tough odor...its great! Clumps nicely so its not messy... Its the ONLY litter we buy!
I bought this because I thought it would work as far as odor better than the other tidy cat litters but not so. I have not had good luck with any of the tidy cat litters lately. I don't know if they changed the formula but it definitely does not clump as good as it used to. I started using fresh step and it works much better.
I just bought a pail of this last month and the Glade scent is a wonderful addition to an already great product. 
We have tried different clumpable cat litter and Tidy Cat Instant Action works best with our muticat household.
Clumps well and keeps odor under control but dust seems to be worst.
Dust is there but not in any great amount. It certainly has less dust than many other products I've tried. The only issue I have with it is really due to one of my cats. She urinates only at one spot on the back wall of the litter box. So the litter doesn't get a chance to clump well because she's always soaking it down. But again other products have done even worse.
We have 3 indoor cats. I have tried multiple types of litter and Tidy Cats is by far superior to all the others. It clumps well, absorbs odor, and lasts a long time. If I had to drive 50 miles to get it, I would. It is my ultimate first choice for cat litter.
Our former neighbors announced they "didn't want the cat anymore" and we could have "it". They came to our door with bowls and a cat basket--"it" (Miss Kitty) was lounging on an old quilt atop the couch. She is a gorgeous cat--she came to us spayed,with all required shots but very scared. The former 'owners' had left her outside---her food bowl was never filled-daily-same with water. Basically, our precious Miss Kitty didn't know which end was up--we fed her and bought a kitty carrier for shelter--finally she 'moved' in and we've had her for a year. Since we hadn't had a cat for many years, I was a bit uniformed about the specifics of good cat care. AND....Miss Kitty had a not so charming habit of kicking litter up like a dust 'bunny' in the desert. I was trying store brands, 'natural ' litter,stuff like driveway gravel,grainy powder. I had a really good coupon that combined Tidy Cats Scoop with her favorite cat food so I bought both--jumbo size. This is the BEST litter I've used and we DO NOT have that voluntary 'kicking' problem anymore! Miss Kitty is quite content with this litter and seems to approve! I approve of the VERY EASY scooping and the Glade Tough Odor Solutions-it's REAL! Smells 'great' compared to other brands. So! Instead of buying a box with a two story kitty 'ladder' we'll keep the litter box and buy Tidy Cats Scoop for one (1) cat! Thanks!
BETWEEN MY SON, NEXT DOOR TO ME, PURCHASE TIDY LITTER 35LB. CLUMPING PAILS 4 TO 5 PER MONTH. HE HAS TAKEN 7 CATS OF VARIOUS AGES AND I HAVE 6 ALL OF WHICH WERE STRAYS AT ONE TIME. HIS FAMILY LIKE MYSELF LOVE THEM VERY MUCH AND PROVIDE EXCELLANT CARE WHICH INCLUDES GROOMING AS WELL AS VET CARE. A COUPLE OF THEM HAVE SPECIAL NEEDS WHICH ARE MET DAILY. TIDY CAT 35LB. MAKE THE LITTER BOX CHORE MUCH EASIER THAN OTHER LITTERS USED IN THE PAST. I'M 69 AND CAN NO LONGER WORK. THE ONLY THING THAT MAKES ME ANY MORE PLEASED THAN THE LITTER IS HAVING A COUPON TO PRESENT AT THE REGISTER. THANK YOU TIDY CAT. ANIMAL CAREGIVER---LINDA
I buy Tidy Cats 24/7 Clumping every time it's on sale. I love it. It's easy to clean up and very good at keeping odors away.
The new Glad scent last a long time and isn't overpowering. I have used Tidy Cats for many years, and now prefer this one over the others. They have also improved the clumping ability of their product. I own 4 cats, so I always get the 35 lb container. The Glade Tough odor litter has the gray lid, so it's easy to distinguish from their other types. Give it a try, you won't be disappointed!
Love this litter, bought it for the first time and will keep on using it . Excellent  clumping, good odor control and little to no dust or tracking. I have 4 cats so that being said it is the best.
I had to buy tidy cat multiple non clumping litter because store was out of fresh step. terrible. I have 2 cats and when they urinate the litter turns to mud!
in our home with our clodder of kitties we need as much scent reduction as we can get tried this the week it came out and buy it every week now !!!
Love Tidy Cats...have been using for years. There are just SO SO many choices and I ordered the wrong one but I like it. Problem is that when scooping, the sand where cat peed sticks to the scooper.
Have been using the new Glade litter but the store was out so i figured this would be just as good. Boy was i wrong! Clumps fall apart and leave debris all thru the litter. Awful. Never again. Controlled odor fine so i guess that was something.
I have used tidy cat litter for about 15 years. I have 8 cats and when this new tidy cat with glade came out I bought eight 35 pound containers. I was very disappointed and after it was gone I went back to the regular tidy cat litter. I would not recommend this product. 
Being a cat/ animal rescuer, I found this product to excellant for multicats, doing everything a cat liter is expected to do plus more. It truley cut down the cat odor in my home. And it has saved me $$$ in not having to purchase more room and carpet deodorizers to be used in the liter box. Thank you for coming up with this new product. Respectfully, L.B-Rimrock ,AZ
I have one cat who is very sensitive to kitty litters and thi s is the only one that I can use.  I find it to be very effective with litter box odors within a few minutes of use.
Used this litter for many years. Will never use anything else.
I have used Tidy Cats litter for years. Purina has surpassed all the litters they have made before. It is the best hardest clumping mix so far.
I really like Tidy Cat and have been using it for years but it seems to have changed! It's still good but the texture is different and it doesn't seem to clump as well for urine! My cat likes it and so I will continue to use it.
My cat was getting urinary infections and our vet recommended nonclumping litter for her and it helped. Tidy Cat has always been my selection for litter.
I have been using the 24/7 litter for many years and have noticed a BIG change in it recently. It does not clump as firmly and it breaks up way to easily. Looks like I will have to switch brands. Sorry Purina,not a change for the better.
I tried this once and this is all I have bought since. It's some good stuff.
We just started using the 24/7 litter and it's amazing. The odor control is superior (and much needed for a 4-cat household!) and the clumps stay together. 
I have been using Tidy Cats Instant Action for years...in fact I have never used a different brand in the 13 years since I first became a cat owner. I know have three cats and this litter is awesome...clumping and does not stick to litter box.
I have 9 cats and it is a challenge to keep home free of cat odors. I have tried other less expensive products but end up spending more in the long run. Even with other clumping litter I end up using more than I would with Tidy Cats.
I have never used another litter. This is fabulous! Never have any problems and no traces of stink left behind!
Excellent product that I can Depend on. has never let me down.
I brought other bands and formulas and my cats seem to prefer this one over all and I like it because it controls ordors better.
I have two cats and this is the best cat litter I've ever used. It clumps really well and makes it easier to scoop up. It covers the odor really well too. I highly recommend  R Tidy Cats with Glade for anyone that has cats.
I had used this for my cat since she was a kitten with no issues; I have recommended it to friends and family who have cats with litterbox issues... since they switched they have had no problems!
We have 10 cats around the house and it is the best product I have used.
I have used Tidy Cats 24/7 for years at one point for 5 cats. It did the job and still is even though I am down to 2 cats. :(
I have used Tidy Cat for over 20 years, and it's still my favorite.
I have 5 cats and thought I would give this a try. It has been wonderful for keeping down the odor and the cats like it too!
Best litter I've ever used. Would recommend to everyone.
For over fifty years of being "owned" by my wonderful felines, I have tried every type of cat litter... even tried to make my own blend using three or four other kinds. Finally last year I was introduced to Tidy Cats... finally the perfect solution to solve the litter box problem. Thank you Purina.
i have used this product for many years now , i switched once and that was mistake my cats wouldn't use it.
...ALSO, I get the Tidy Cat scoopable (not the economy because it doesn't fall apart when trying to scoop. This Glade scoopable falls apart when scooping, especially if you have a cat that likes to go in the edges/corners. Perhaps I just got a defective batch, though, so here's the info in case Quality Control reads this since there was no contact info (SKU 7023015348, Bottom of bucket: 7/21/13 5:05 Midwest, Side of Bucket: 3207116901 0404L01).
I tried this litter a couple months ago and so glad I did!  My cats had been peeing outside the box for a year.  I'd been trying different litters seeing what would make it stop, with no luck.  The day I tried this litter the peeing stopped immediately!!   Thank you Thank you Thank you!  
I have been buying this litter for over a month now. It sure helps eliminate those odors. I have five cats, and a huge litter box. So I need all the help I can get. Other brands just dont do.
I've been buying Tidy Cat Litter for years and will most likely continue to buy it.
This is the best kitty litter on the market. Totally manages the odor quickly.
I would not use any other brand of litter for my two cats. It's the best!
Refuse to buy anything else. I have to cats, using the same litter box. People come into my home & don't realize I have cats that live there, but there is no odor in the house. They seem amazed when they see that I have two! lol
I have used this litter for years. I had 14 cats and now am down to 5 cats. ALL the other litters I have used cannot stand up to this one. Including the other Tidy Cat's varieties. This is the best!
It's the only one I buy. It is an excellent product!
Sorry to say one of my cats will not use the litter box with the glade
Cats always use their box with TIDY cat in it. What more could I want? Oh yeah, odor perfectly controlled!
I have used the Instant Action for the last 7 years for my cat Cranston and it is the best and only litter he likes!!!!
Have been using this for a few years now and it's the best out there.
We have three cats & three litter boxes. On occasion I have had to used non-Tidy Cats litter & the cats ignore that box & use the other two. Normally, they each have their own preferred box.
LOVE THIS!! Thx Tidy Cats for the free FULL size container & coupon!! Just bought more!! My kitty LOVES IT TOO!!
Works great if you keep up on scooping love the scent.... Would buy more if i got coupons :)
Tidy Cats was recommended to me by a friend i have 2 cats and 2 foster kittens and the odor of the litter box's was horrendous sometimes and could be difficult to scoop. This litter is easy to scoop and help control the odor it's much better then non clumping litter and is much better then the Sam's Club and Tractor Supply house brands. It is...
I would use this product again and in fact have ordered more. The OMG is that I couldn't believe there was no "dust." To all you cat litter cleaners out there, you know that dust that floats up as you clean and/or pour more in. NONE ... and even if I am out all day, I do not walk into the cat litter area and need to wear a mask. Worth the try!
New lightweight formula = epic fail, It's too expensive Tidy Cats & from the great consensus on this forum/posts it tracks greatly & mats don't solve the problem.<br/>#backtothedrawingboard
i have used this litter for years 3 cats 3 litter boxes no problem. it clumps better than the other brands
Stciking with my Tidy Cats for Small Spaces.  Works wonderful and my cat likes it.  If it ain't broke, I'm not changing it!
The lightweight I'm sure is great...  but I stopped using Tidy Cats a LONG time ago when I realized just how much it stinks!  I use Cat's Pride Cat Litter - lightweight AND excellent odor control.
Unfortunately one of my cats refuses to use her litter box, she goes #2 on the floor about a foot from the box.  But she was doing the same thing before we tried Tidy Cats Lightweight, so I don't believe it's the problem.
I started buying this Glade litter a month ago. I will not buy it again. The litter stinks, the room stinks, and the cats stink after using it. I will go back to the regular blue container without the Glade.
Not a fan!  Seems like so much technology went into getting the other Tidy Cats litter to clump better ... and it's GREAT ... the new stuff just falls apart when scoop.  Let me know when the new stuff clumps as well and I'll give it another try.
I used Fresh Step for the first time this year and prefer it over tidy cat, but it costs a little more.
I wish I did not waste my money on this product. I am a Tidy Cat user but this is the worst litter ever. It does not clump at all. My litter box pretty much turns into a sludge box when my cats use it. I have broken 1 or 2 scooper already trying to clean it. I do not recommend this.
It REALLY IS lightweight! That part is awesome. It also does work as well as most other clumping litter I've tried - no complaints there. My only issue is that I wish it came unscented. The scent is very strong, and I don't like my cats to stink of those perfumes. But over-all, especially because in the past I've had to pay people to carry litter into my house and broken my disabled back using those heavy boxes every day ... I love this product!!! Walmart delivers it to my door and I can lift it easily myself as it's used. It's been a long time coming - yay!
I have 8 cats, and I am allergic to chemical smells. When this came out I was glad. I had been using small spaces until my Target stopped selling it. This is great. It doesn't smell and I can use it without problem.
I now have 1 cat and 2 kittens. I used this product and I smelled urine when I walked in the front door of my house. It didn't clump as well. The scented liners were a pleasure though. I switched to using the liners and fresh step multicat formula. I have no more bad smells welcoming me home
I really like the smell . And It works great!!!!!!!!!
I bought Glade scented litter a week ago and I strongly dislike it. The smell is entirely disagreeable. It does its job well enough because I couldn't smell my cat's feces, but I would suggest fixing the scent of the litter. It is reminiscent of alcohol and digusting indeed.
My cats are 7 and 15 years old and I have been using this product for YEARS and have never had a problem, it clumps well and seems to take care of the "kitty smells". We had picked up other brands but always come back to this Tidy Cat litter.
This one is okay, there is just something about the smell of the glade in the litter that I don't like. Once that smell disapates a little it's not so bad. The cats didnt seem to mind it
Since the change it is dustier and I have a really sensitive nose and I don't like the new smell. I wish they would have left it the way it was!
I bought this produce in hopes of having a better smell control for our cats. I did not like the smell of this product out of the container.
love the smell of the bathroom when our cat is in her litter box scratching
I have 9 cats and really need all the help and the new smell is great! Always have loved Tidy Cats the best.
I have 3 adult cats & definately need a litter that smells good & clumps even better, have never had a problem with this litter & have never used any other.
Unfortunately, my cats don't like the Glade litter, won't use it anymore. After the cats used it, the Glade litter smelled awful.
This Glade scent is very light and refreshing. It kind of smells like grape. I have 7 cats and they didn't mind the switch.
I use this litter all the time, it smells great I have 6 cats and it works
I have serious multiple cats and 3 liter boxes in the house. I clean the boxes twice daily in the morning and at night. Love the fact that there is very little dust and as long as my precious ones cover up no smell!
I like it because it is a pleasant odor and covers up the cat smells really great
We have been using this for a couple years now. we have tried others brands and this one is the one we always come back to.It always smells clean and fresh.
I buy Tidy cat all the time. It cuts down on the smell and the litter doesn't fly all over the place like some brands do. 
We live in Florida have two cats that use the litter a lot because they drink so much water to stay hydrated. We had been using another corn-based litter for the past year that worked well, but not the best. Recently we moved and the litter is now in our master bathroom so we needed to find a litter that completely eliminated all of the odor and this is it! Ever since we started using the tidy cats with glade we can't even smell it. Honestly sometimes we forget to clean it out because it doesn't smell at all. Absolutely love this product!
Leaves a great smell to a really smelly job!
Love the way it keeps the smell at a minimum and the 40 pound bag is a must with three cats.
Good smell, good clumping, good value, and easily scooped, my 2 cats like it too! meow meow :)
It really smells better than regular litter. Leaves a fresh odor.
I have 6 indoor cats, but people can't smell them when they come to our house! This litter clumps very well and holds the smell so our house won't smell like a litter box!
i have been using tidy cat instant action for years - in my option the best litter for my cat - less dust, tracking and great smell
I highly enjoy this litter but wish that the smell was a bit more scented.
Initially, the smell is a bit strong, but it doesn't take long to go away. I love all the Tidy Cat products, tho! =)
This Tidy Cat product smells like puke; other scents great!
GREAT!!!A VERY GOOD PRODUCT. USUALLY CATS DO NOT LIKE THE SMELL OF ANYTHING PERFUMEY. THIS TIME THEY DONT CARE.
I have the litter box near the kitchen-sure don't want that smell! It works.
My cat likes the litter and so do we! It's nice to come in the house and smell a pleasant fragrance instead of a litter box!!!
I've been using Tidy Cats litter for 10 years and really like the instant action. I don't have that "litter box smell" in my house like some cat households can get. I use the odor powder as well during each emptying of waste.
Only recently I've noticed a heavier perfumed scent in this and the instant action litter.  The scent doesn't do anything to block litter box smells.  All it does is irritate me and my cats. Please consider using less scented additives or introduce an unscented litter.
this stuf is great.Rock hard clumps with no dust and no smell.
My cat and I love this litter It keeps the smell away, and it scoops out very easily!! 
I Like that the smell of this Kitty Litter does not overwhelm you when the kitty scratches in the litter box and it covers the smell of the potty really good and is easy to scoop out .
I bought this hoping it would help with the oder but I am very upset to say, it didn't. My cat doesn't like the smell and everytime I pour more into the little boxs she goes crazy and runs away.
I have trouble getting clumps scooped out. They break apart. The urine smell some times is strong.
Wow--and I'll pay heed to the other comments of tracking it everywhere.  I have one cat who is very exuberant about kicking litter so it's all over my house as it is.  I tried some other type lightweight stuff--was a bit like sawdust, and I can say I will NEVER go that route again.<br/>,Cat Litter Too Heavy? Enter the Tidy Cats LightWeight Giveaway http://t.co/SJcoRCa8Or via @TheTiniestTiger"
My cats prefer this litter over most other kinds, and the ease of container (which is also reusable when empty) and the price make this an excellent value. I love that I can order it online and have it waiting for me in a cart when I get to the store - I don't have to carry it everywhere. Great product!!
I have been searching and trying different types of litter for the past year trying to find one with the lease amount of dust. This product finally ended my search. Not only is there NO DUST, but it smells nice and it clumps much better than any other brand I have tried, and it is also cheaper !! Bonus !! I scoop every day and the clumps stay together and do not stick to the bottom of the pan. My cat had no problem adjusting to it and I noticed she is not sneezing like she used to. I love this litter !!!!!!!
Great price, delivered to my door, smells goods, easy to scoop
I have used Tidy Cats for many years & have tried all of them. The new Tidy Cats with Glade is WONDERFUL & is by far the BEST EVER for staying clumped & covering odors!!! I was even told my trash can smells good now LOL!!! :D
I've bought this a few times and each time I wasn't disappointed it performed as expected. clumping was ok, dust was ok(less is more). the glade smell was not to my liking. way to powerful no doubt that's why its so good covering odors. I like a silent litter and this wasn't. each time the cats used the LB you knew it within seconds.
My brother uses this, he really likes. I have the cat litter pan in boys bathroom, must scoop every day and still stinks. I can use most other "Name" brands and can scoop every 2-3 days. This does not mask smell but does clump well. Love the container, makes it easier to store. Ordered online because it is so heavy...free shipping...the price was pretty good.
I bought the Glade by price and was pleasantly surprised by the performance ! Awesome no smell easy to clean up clumps stay together .
I use Tidy cats clumping cat litter for years, both on indoor cats but also my barn cats are litter trained. Especially indoors I like solutions that eliminate any smells . trying out the new product with glade was a no-brainer. But: it STINKS. What went wrong there? The litter itself has a very stange, unpleasant odor, and the used litter - *uuuughhh* talking of urine smell - really bad. 28 lbs of wasted money, no way I will keep using any more of this bucket. Very disappointed :-(
Exactly as described. Not dusty and messy. Scoops nicely and qucikly. Hides the scent of cats natural business. Highly recommended and always a greact price at Walmart & super quick home delivery.
With 11 fosters and 5 of my own cats I have to budget resources and the 40lb pails do the job. I average 6 pails a week. Good price and odor control, doesnt turn to cement or paste, not overly dusty. Some less expensive litters require a steel shovel to scoop out.
My female cat is 15 years old. She prefers Tidy Cats Instant Action above the many other clumping cat litters I have tried over the years. Not too much scent and it holds odors well. The clean up is the best for this pet mother as it does not stick like clay or cement to the litter box bottom or walls like most other brands. Use the coupons when they come out and shop the sales and it can be a great bargain.
I wasn't sure if this was as good as other Tidy Cat litter but I couldn't get the other at the time. This works just as good and seems easier to sift through.
Tidy Cat always performs like advertised. Great product at great price.
We switched to Tidy Cat from Fresh Step because Tidy Cat states that it is practically dust free. It certainly lives up to that. Now our surrounding furniture, etc. is no longer covered in dust. Also, the Glade releases a nice fragrance whenever it is used.
I have been using the Tidy Cats cat litter with Glade for 2 months now. I absolutely love it! My kitties don't mind it either! :0)
I love this product!!! I have 4 cats and it works amazingly!!!
The only litter preferred by my cat. He loves the citrus scent, and it fits in well with the decor of his brand-new litter box.
Easy to clean, no struggle to cover, My cats love it. Makes my job easier. Ragdolls are my kids, I have to make sure they are happy
Used it love it! Would recommend it to anyone with a pet!
Works better than the original! Love it!!!!!!!!!!!
I've been using Tidy Cats for a very long time.  I have two cats and their pan gets cleaned daily.  I do think there is too much dust but it does a great job clumping and keeps the odor to a minimum.
have been purchasing this for a while for the cats. love that it doesn't have a strong fragrance, clumps well and isn't dust producing.
CLUMPING IS SO GOOD AND I DONT GET THE DUST AND ODOR THE MAKES YOU WANT TO GAG SOMETIMES. ONLY DOWNFALL, NOT ENOUGH COUPONS FOR US THAT ARE BUDGETING.
I have Litter Robots and this works great in them. The clumping is great and the odor control is great, but it does it without a strong scent so the cats seem to love it!
I have tried so many brands of litter and Tidy Cats Instant Action Wins hands down. I even have six cats.  The clumping is now so much better than it used to be. You will love this product. 
I usually don't buy this kind but due to times being tough it was cheaper then my usual brand of litter I buy and I will never buy this again it did nothing for holding in the smell and I have never had any problems with clumps until trying this kind it seems like they stick to the bottom of the box and then when you try to scrap them off they just crumble into smaller pieces then you mine as well just change the whole box because of the smell. I am very disappointed and next time I'll stop being so cheap and just spend the extra $2.00 on my usual brand.
I love the scent of this liter and my kitty does too!
I love this product! As the cats 'cover' the glade is rleased and the ordos dissolve in he air!
We have three cats and have found that this litter works best for multiple cats.  It clumps easy and there is no odor.  Easy to clean up.  Love the containers with the handles - makes it easy to pour and carry
I think this helps with odor a lot for my cats. I love the scoop/clumping factor as well.
Just love it for multi cats and it has a nice scent to it with mimial dust.
I love the new Tidy Cat with Glade! Its not too overpowering of a scent for the cats & I think they like it too!
My kitty loves her litter! We use the 24/7 and this one. Tried others they failed! Tidy cat never lets us down! 
Tidy Cat litter is the only brand my cats like. Very low dust residue.
I have 6 cats and it works great. Low dust and pleasant odor.
this is so much better than fresh step which leaves a film of dust all over.
I have two cats and two litter boxes. This is actually the first and only litter I've used, as I've never had a reason to look elsewhere.  LOVE the clumping feature, it makes cleanup so much easier.  I never detect any odor, and neither do my guests.
It claims it is 99% dust free, but when I sift through the box, dust flies in my face.
love this litter, I buy it all the time. If they happen to be out I buy the 24/7
has no dust when filling cat box, and it clumps urine very tightly for a more solid scoop
My friend's husband visiting our home for the first time made this comment shortly after walking through the front door. We have 3 litter boxes and several cats. Tidy Cats Instant Action works well for us and is so easy to scoop and clean boxes. It is also very economical for the amount that we use.
I have five cats, and 10 litterboxes.  This is the only product which keeps the odor down so I don't have to clean their boxes several times a day.
our cat will walk around the box several times and see if it's clean--with tidy cat there can still be some there but the odor is masked.
I have 8 cats and use non-clumping plus this brand of clumping cat litter. My cats prefer the clumping, but I wish it would clump together a little bit better. Most of the time I have problems cleaning out the huge litter box.
This type of litter was my 3rd, and final choice. I was very happy with the results. I clean my cats litter daily, I was amazed on how well the clumps stayed together each and every time I cleaned it!
Really like the clumping, makes clean up easier. Very effective with odors.
excellent for small bathrooms and economical. in my small bathroom, the cat pan sits next to the toilet, and this keeps my bathroom fresh as well as the cat pan. easily to scoop and is flushable which makes it convenient to clean cat pan when i utilize the faclilities.
it did the job, and I was able to clean the litter box very easy.
Clean fresh odor and the fantastic clumping ability makes this litter a keeper.
I use Tidy Cat for a long time and still using it. I just wish the would send coupons.
This works great to cover the odor of our really stinky kitty excrement. I just wish there were some way of making it lighter. I can handle the containers now but as I get older it's going to be tough.
I agree the product is not as good as it once was. I have been using tis product for the last four years and would like a coupon to help out here now and than
Have used Tidy Cats for 8 years and the 24/7 works best for my two cats.  
great product, works great great product, works great
I have been using this litter for a couple of months and have one thing to say...it actually works! It clumps instantly and controls odor at the same time! wonderful product
I wanted this litter to work. It didn't meet my needs at all. I gave it 6 weeks, and then gave the remaining litter I had bought at Sam's. To a shelter.
I have been using this since I got my two cats and it works great
The idea sounded great, but did not live up to expectations. Instant Action still the best
My first choice in litter by far, have 3 cats and this is great
I have a kitty with allergies, this litter does not make her skin inflamed like nearly all others. Great clumping ability.
This is my go to cat litter. This keep the odor down and it's great for clumping!
I have been using Tidy Cat for several years!!  It is a great product!!  The clumps don't break up when you scoop!!  
It really is a great brand for my cat because she is old and Tidy Cat covers up the odor in the pan that is great
Tidy Cats with Glade; Great Combination of Two Great Products!
I think this stays fresher than the other litters I have tried. I've got nine indoor cats and so there is a lot of changing litter. Since I started using this I don't have to change so often
I have 2 kittens and one litter box.  Our litter box is in our foyer.  There is a fresh scent with this.  Keeps all odors out.
I love Tidycat!! It's the only litter I will use. I like it because it clumps well and doesn't create a lot of dust when I'm scooping it out or my kitties are using their box. I also don't notice litterbox odors when I walk in my house. 
I have 6 cats and foster senior cats for our loal animal control. This litter provides excellent odor control, does not have an overpowering scent of its own and most importantly is well accepted by my cats and my fosters.
Thinking about trying other brand.  Have used tidy cats for a long time.
I tried this for two months and it is terrible! Here is the deal. I purchased this because may daughter is responsible for her cats and the other litter is fairly heavy. The cat box is in the garage and we started noticing the ammonia smell after a week. The cat box was thoroughly scooped and the smell never stopped. We thought that one of the cats was doing his business elsewhere in the garage, but after scooping the litter box, I noticed the ammonia smell was unbearable from the box itself. I use Tidy Cat all the time, and this is the first unpleasant experience I have had with it. Basically, you cannot scoop this litter because it absorbs the urine and does not clump together. So, you get a lightweight litter, but you have to change all of the litter at once which is a very expensive way to go.
works great and helps prevent odor, love it
i buy once a month for my one kitten or 12 times a year
I tried this just by chance and sure glad I did! I have a multiple cats in my family and this new Glade team-up with Tidy Cats really does the job for us. Using less litter and getting alot less odors. Clumps better too! Thanks!
I have used Tidy Cat for a very long time.  It is always a consistent product that I trust.
I have always used Tidy Cat w/great success however, it seems like it is not clumping as well as it used to. Also, my cats love to play w/it, since it rolls everywhere. I do like the product in spite of the items mentioned. It may come to a point that, due to the poor clumping, I may have to try other products.
I used to use store brand litter. Tidy cats lasts longer and controls odors 100 times better!!!